Is anybody else seeing a half a second lag with J. Cal? Like a second lie test test. One two one two from it like the way is mouth moves. Well, that always happens. Oh In mouth never stop moving black sacks. Relax sacks Are we going recording? You ready to go This is eight plus material Sacks, all right, let's go. This is Sipel at the punchline. Let's go. Let's go. I'm ready All right, everybody welcome to episode 111 of the world's greatest podcasts according to slate the podcast that shall not be mentioned by the press apparently What do you mean they just did a profile on us? Well, they did this is the conundrum It's so much of a phenomenon that were the number one business and the number one tech podcast in the world hands down that the press has a hard time I'm giving us any oxygen because they want to hate us They want to cover it. You're saying they take the ideas, but not the they don't want to cite it They don't want to cite it. They don't want to cite it, but anyway shout out to slate Yeah, what I thought was interesting was the guy pointed out that We don't want to subject ourselves to independent journalists asking us independent questions Therefore we go direct and that's kind of the the thing nowadays when everyone says they want to go direct It's because they don't want to be subject to independent journalists Well, one might ask themselves why subjects don't want to go direct. Yeah, exactly You mean don't want to go to journalists. Yeah, because it there's a specific reason why principles the subjective stories do not want to have the press Interpret what they're saying is because they don't feel they're getting a fair shake They feel like the challenge is that then we avoid independence scrutiny Of our points of view and our decisions. No, we know their concy writing hit pieces about us The question is when we want to present our side of it Do we need to go through their filter or not? Well, why would you go through their filter when it's always gonna be a hit piece? Right well, they have a class hatred of Basically of technology entrepreneurs You're right Jake how they don't hate you because you genuinely flex to their political biases You see if If you do what SQF did which is basically Agree with all of their biases then yes, they'll treat you better. That's the deal. That's how it works Specific large media outlets right? Nobody you can name one I'll trade you I'll say well trade you Fox for MSNBC and CNN and the New York Times the Washington Post and the Atlantic magazine on and on and on you get a lot of mileage out of being able to name Fox the fact the matter is Megan Kelly mm-hmm. That's a podcast or she's independent now That's true. She's you can name one. I mean literally one outlet That is not part of this you know mainstream media and they all think the same way There are very small differences the way they think it's all about clicks It's all about clicks at this point and it's all about And advocacy it's is that comedy you what you're calling advocacy is bias and An activism it's a lot of it's that's what I'm talking about activism journalism. Yes, I think the dream on also highlights a really important point Which is you know he started his podcast. It's become one of the most popular forms of sports media and He can speak directly without the filtering and you know classification that's done by the you know journalist And it seems to be a really powerful trend the audience really wants to hear direct and they want to hear unfiltered raw points of view and there and maybe there's still a role for I think the journalism Separate from that which is to then scrutinize and analyze and question and it's not journalism To activism. They're just activists Look, why does anybody there are also journalists out there sacks right so actually well It depends what the topic isn't what the outlet is but fair enough I actually I would argue that most of these journalists are doing what they're doing for the same reason that we're doing what we're doing Which is they want to have some kind of influence because they don't get paid very much right But the way they have influence is to push a specific political agenda. I mean they're activists They're basically I'm advocacy journalism. Yes, that's a term I coined for it. It's advocacy. You guys see this bruh-ha We're mad at glacius wrote this article about the Fed and about the debt ceiling And through this whole multi-hundred-word thousand-word Tom He didn't understand the difference between a percentage point in the basis point and then you can calculate the interest Yeah, I did see that Wow, so wait a second you're saying the feds raised a 25% Yeah, that's a huge difference between a 25% between a principle and an outside analyst right like a principle Has a better grasp typically of the topics of material, but you know the argument Journalist the are you considered he's considered within the journalist circle he's considered the conventional wisdom I get it, but the argument from a journalist is that by having that direct access that person is also biased Because they're an agent because they're a player on the field they do have a point of view And they do have a direction they want to take things so it is a fair commentary That journalist can theoretically play a role, which is there an off-field analyst and that don't necessarily break I would argue they're less educated and more biased than we are That may or may not be true what the two of you guys are debating, which is a very subjective take But the thing that is categorical and you can't deny is that there is zero checks and balances When something as simple as the basis point percentage point difference isn't caught in proofreading Isn't caught by any editor isn't caught by the people that you know help them review this and so what that says is All kinds of trash must get through because there's no way For the average person on Twitter to police all of this nonsensical content This one was easy because it was so numerically illiterate That it just stood out But can you imagine the the number of unforced errors Journalists make today in their search for clicks that don't get caught out that may actually tip somebody to think A versus B that's I think the thing that's kind of undeniable Right Yeah, you only need to there's a very simple test for this if you read Uh, the journalists writing about a topic you are an expert on whatever the topic happens to be You start to understand okay, well on that story arm reading Yeah, that they understand about 10 or 20 or 30% of what's going on But then when you read stories that you're not involved in you know you read a story about Hollywood or I don't know Pick an industry or or a region. You're not super aware of you're like, okay. Well, that must be a hundred percent correct And the truth is journalists have access to one there is a name for you. It's called the jelman amnesia effect You just play joyous Michael Crichton who came up with that yeah, so you yeah But no, it's exactly right, but I think it's worse than that. It's because the now the Now the mistakes aren't being driven just by sloppiness or laziness or just a lack of expertise I think it's being driven by an agenda So just to give you an example on the slate thing the slate article actually wasn't bad It kind of made us seem you know cool the sub headline was a close listen to all in the infuriating fascinating safe space For Silicon Valley's money man. Okay, but the headline changed So I don't know if you guys noticed this the headline now is Elon Musk inner circles telling us exactly what it thinks first of all like they're trying to Forklicks. Yeah, it's the illogic so they're trying way too hard to like describe us in terms of Elon Which you know is maybe two episodes out of 110 but before inner circle the word they use was cronies And then somebody edited it because I saw cronies in like one of those tweet, you know Summaries mm-hmm, you know where like it does a capsule or whatever Yeah, yeah, and those get frozen in time So you know they were trying to bash us even harder and then somebody took another look at it Well, here's what happened the I'll tell you what happens in the editorial process Whoever writes the article the article gets submitted maybe gets edited proofread whatever Maybe it doesn't even in some publications that are over the time for it because they're in a race Then they pick there's somebody who's really good at social media They picked six or seven headlines they ab test them and they even have software for this Where they will run a test sometimes they'll do a pay test they put five dollars in ads on social media which everyone performs the best that's the one they go with So it's even more cynical and because people who read the headlines Sometimes they don't read the story right obviously most people see the headline they interpret that as a story That's why I told you when they did that new republic piece on you with that horrific monstrous monstrosity of illustration Don't worry about it people just read the headline they know you're important nobody reads the story anyway No, but it wasn't about article actually it was well written actually yeah shock I was like who is this writer that actually took the time to write some prose That was actually decent yeah, he had listened to a lot of episodes clearly That was a really good moment actually that was great advice because you gave it to him And you gave it to me because both of us had these things and Jason said the same thing just look at the picture And if you're okay with the picture just move on that I thought this can't be true And it turned out to mostly be true. Yeah, but my picture was terrible Yeah, but it's close to reality I G's I mean I just show how ridiculous there was Peter Tiel more Yeah, but that just shows how ridiculously biased it is right I'm sure it was like you to you uh Hugh Grant you long look to pull it up one more time here You know, it looks like you grant actually it does you got not bad kind of looks like you grant and like nodding Hill I knew that article was gonna be fine when the first You know item they presented as evidence of me doing something wrong was basically helping to house chase a boodine Which was something that was supported by like 70% of San Francisco. Yeah, which is a 90% Democratic city. So not exactly evidence of some you know Right movement look at the headline The quiet political rise of David sacks. So it's probably a prophet of urban dude I'm just letting you know people don't get past the six word in the image. Yeah, it's 99% of being more like oh my god Congrats on the you know republic article. It could have little bit Laurel. What do they call them? Laurel Ipsom's you know like it could have just been filler words from their second graph down and nobody would know Yeah, but now apparently if you notice that San Francisco streets look like you know walking dead that apparently you're a Profit of urban do I mean people are so out of touch. I mean they can't even acknowledge what people can see with their own eyes That's the bias that's gotten crazy and I don't know if you guys saw this Really horrible dystopian video of a art gallery owner who's been dealing with owning a storefront in San Francisco, which was challenging and having to clean up Feces and you know trash and whatever Uh every day and I guess the guy snapped and he's hosing down a homeless person who refuses to leave the front of his store Oh, I just love that. I just like the humanity in this is just insane like Really like you're hosing a human being down It's terrible who is obviously Not living a great life and as you know, I can feel for both them I agree that is not good to hosing a human being down on the other hand think about the sense of frustration that store owner has because He's watching his business go in the toilet because he's got homeless people living a five him So they're both like being mistreated the homeless person being mistreated the same The homeless person's being mistreated the homeless person being mistreated the store owner is being mistreated by the city of San Francisco. Yeah Same without the store The person's not in a privileged position that person probably the store owner the store owner. He's probably fighting to stay in business I'm just saying I'm not saying that's right, but I think I'm laying the rope Do what you're trying to do is oh my god look at this this homeless person being horribly oppressed no that store owner is a victim too Yeah, there's no doubt. It's horrible to read a business. What is that supposed to do? No, it this is this is symbolic of the breaking down of basic society like these both of these people are obviously like It's just a horrible moment to even witness It's like oh, it's like it's like it's something Jason Do you have equal empathy for the store owner and the homeless person or no? Under no circumstances should you Oh, is a person down in the face who is homeless like it's just horrific to watch. It's just inhumane. This is a human being Now but as a person who owns a store. Yeah, my dad grew up in the local business If people were abusing the store you're trying to make a living and you got to clean up You know, whatever X-German every day which is a horrific yes, and this is the moment Yeah, in that moment the empathy is not equal I think you have more empathy obviously for the person on the receiving end of that host. Okay, but in general Our society has tons of empathy from those people we spend billions of dollars trying to solve that problem You never hear a thing about the store owners who are going out of business So on a societal level You know not in that moment, but in general the lack of empathy is for these middle class store owners Who may not be middle class working class who are struggling to stay afloat And you look at something like what is it like a quarter or a third of the storefront since there was a scorer now vacant I'll be shocked this person is running the shocking thing is like this person is running an art gallery storefront in San Francisco Like why would you even bother? Why would you bother to have a storefront in San Francisco? I mean everybody's left. It's just what do you mean? Why do you bother if you open to stores? Some what are you supposed to start to code all of a sudden? Well, no, I mean you would shut it down at some point and find an exit and do what all business is Has large fixed costs right? So he may be in the business when he made 10 years ago exactly at some point You have to shut down your store in San Francisco the second you can get out of the solution to everything jc I'll isn't go to coding school online and then you know But moving to another city as a possibility A lot of folks in Silicon Valley. I think in this weirdly fucked up way do believe the solution to everything is learn to coat Or become a mover driver or bring a lot of the suit get a get a get a gig to the guys the guys the guys the guys But years building his retail business I mean the thing is he was person camps in front and the homeless and he calls the police the police don't come and move the homeless person The homeless person stays there. He asked nicely to move customers are uncomfortable going into the stores result Yeah, I stopped going to certain stores in my neighborhood because of homeless Attents being literally fixated in front of the store and I go to the store down the road to get my groceries or whatever Like I mean, it's not a kind of uncommon situation for a lot of these small business owners. They don't own the real estate their paying rent They've got high labor costs, you know everything's inflating Generally city populations declining. It's a brutal situation All around I think if everybody learns to code or drives an Uber the problem is that in the absence of things like local stores and small businesses you hollow out communities You have these random detached places where you kind of live and then you sit in your house Which becomes a prison while you order food from an app every day I don't think that is the society that people want so I don't know I kind of want small businesses to exist And I think that the homeless person should be taken care of but the small business person should have the best chance Or trying to be successful because it's hard enough as it is the the mortality rate of the of the small business owner is already 90% It's impossible in San Francisco. I just be honest like to run a certain I'm not sure you're gonna push people to listen. I you are because here here. So how am I sure I'm reflecting I'm saying the guy I'm just shocked that the guy even has a storefront. I would have left a lot of your tweet That's a moment in time and you're not showing the 10 steps that led up to it. Oh a thousand steps five times He called the police. I bring it as dystopian from the lost customers the stuff that freebergant We're just talking about maybe there was physical conflict that we didn't see in that you know, and he's resolving it It's not oh man. It's really hard to look at these videos and know what's going on. It's awful to see but man We don't know it's a whole thing You want to know another reason why we can't solve this problem This is the language we use around it the phone. No problem here is not homeless. Okay. It's addiction It's addiction. You see because and it's mental illness shell and burgers son the work It's like he said 99% of the people he talks to it's either mental illness or addiction But we keep using this word homeless to describe the problem But the issue here is not the lack of of housing. Although that's a separate problem in California But it's basically the lack of of treatment totally so we should be calling them treatment lists and mandates around this because and enforcement You cannot have you can't have a super drug be available for Anomonal price and give people You know a bunch of money to come here and take it and not enforce it You have to draw the line. That's at fentanyl. I'm sorry fentanyl is a super drug This three alternatives is mandated rehab mandated mental health or jail or You know housing services if you're not breaking the law you don't have mental illness You don't have drug addiction and then provide those are the four paths of outcome here of success and if all four of those Pads were both mandated and available in abundance This could be a tent attractable problem Unfortunately the man the mandate. I mean you guys remember that Kevin Bacon movie or Kevin Bacon was locked up in a mental institution but he wasn't like He wasn't mentally ill. It's a famous story. It's a famous. What's that? Famous story. I think you guys someone's probably gonna call me an idiot for For messing this whole thing up, but I think there's a there's a story where mandated Mental health services like locking people up to take care of them when they have mental mental health issues like this became kind of inhumane And a lot of the institutions were shut down and a lot of the laws were overturned And there are many of these cases that happened where they came across as like torturous to what happened to people that weren't mentally ill And so the idea was like let's just abandon me. Oh, I could push nest You think about one thing you want to do this nest. Yeah, well, that's another one, right? And It's unfortunate, but I think that there's some you know, we talk a lot about nuance in gray areas But there's certainly some solution here that isn't black or white. It's not about not having mandated mental health services And it's not about locking everyone up that has some slight problem But there's some solution here that needs to be crafted Where you know, you don't let people suffer and you don't let people suffer both as the The victim on the street, but also the victim of 5150 I think like when people are held But because they're a danger to themselves or others kind of thing Right, but you have to see about the power of language here if we refer to these people as untreated persons Instead of homeless persons And that was the coverage 24 seven in the media is this is an untreated person The whole policy prescription we completely different it realises a shortage of treatment We'd realize there's a shortage of remedies related to getting people in treatment as opposed to building housing But why why and laws that mandated that that don't enable it because if you don't mandate it Then you enable the free reign and the free living on the street and the open drug markets and all this sort of stuff There's a really easy test for this if it was if it was yourself And you were addicted Or if it was a loved one is when your media family members would you want yourself Or somebody else to be picked up off the street and held with a 5150 or whatever Code involuntarily against their will because they were a danger would you want them to be allowed to remain on the street Would you want yourself if you were in that dire straits and the answer of course is You would want somebody to Policy perspective on this jcals. So let me ask you as our our diehard liberal on this show. No, I'm not a diehard liberal No, no independent only voter democrats. Please get it right 75% of the time I voted democrats 25% of right independent of Those are democrats. Okay, 25% Republicans. Is it not that your individual liberty turns fringe to pond if you were to be quote picked up and put away You know my position on it is if you're not thinking straight You're in your high on fentanyl you're not thinking for yourself and you you could lose the liberty for a small period of time 72 hours a week You know, especially if you're a danger to somebody, you know yourself or other people and then in this case if you're on fentanyl If you're on meth you're you're you're a danger to I mean, I think if more I think if more people had that if more people had that point of view And had that debate of sex is saying in a more open way You could get to some path to resolution on just not in San Francisco. It's not how it happens. So You guys know this we won't say who it is, but someone In my family has some pretty severe mental health issues and the problem is Because they're an adult you can't get them to get any form of treatment whatsoever Right, right The only have the nuclear option and the nuclear option is you basically take that person to court and try to seize their power of attorney Which is essentially saying that you know individual liberties are gone Yeah, and by the way, it is so unbelievably restrictive what happens if you lose that power of attorney And somebody else has it over you It's just a huge burden that The legal system makes extremely difficult and the problem laws a backstop You know if the person's committing something illegal like camping out or doing fentanyl Math whatever you can use the laws the backstop, you know All that person can do is really get arrested even that is not a high enough bar to actually get power of attorney over somebody The other thing that I just wanted you guys to know I think you know this but just a little historical context is a A lot of this crisis in mental health started because Reagan defunded all the psychiatric hospitals He emptied them in California And that compounded because for whatever reason his ideology was that these things should be treated in a different way and when he got to Presidency one of the things that he did was he repealed the mental health I think it's called the mental health systems act and mhsa Which completely broke down some pretty landmark legislation on mental health and it's And I don't think we've ever really recovered and that we're now 42 years onward from 1980 But or 43 years onward, but there's something for you guys to know that that's that's Well, that's breaking had a lot of positives That's one definitely negative check in my book against his legacy is his stance on mental health in general and what he did to defund mental health Well, let me make a couple two points there So I'm I'm not defending that specific decision There were a bunch of scandals in the 1970s and epitomized by the movie one flu over the kukus nest of jack Nicholson About the conditions in these mental health homes and that did create a groundswell to change the laws around that But I think this idea that like somehow Reagan is to blame when he hasn't been in office for 50 years As opposed to the politicians who've been in office for the last 20 years I just think it's letting them off the hook. I mean Gavin Newsom 10 15 years ago when he was mayor of San Francisco declared that he would end homelessness within 10 years He just made another declaration like that as governor So I just feel like bring up thing it's Reagan's fault I'm just saying Historical moment. I think it's letting I think it's letting the politicians society needs to start thinking about changing priorities We didn't have this problem of massive numbers of people living on the streets 10 15 years ago It was a much smaller problem And I think a lot of us do with fentanyl the power of these drugs is increased. Yes massively. There's other things going on here So In any event, I mean you can question what Reagan did in light of current conditions But I think this problem really started in the last 10 15 years Yes, it's like in in an order of magnitude bigger way These are super drugs until people realize like these are a different class of drugs and they start treating them as such It's gonna just get worse. There's no half. Oh as far as I know Reagan didn't hand out to these addict 800 dollars a week to feed their addictions they can live on the streets in Francisco I don't know. That is the current policy of the city I agree with you all the policy all I just wanted to just provide was just that color that We had a system of funding For the mental health infrastructure particularly local mental health infrastructure and we took that back And then we never came forward and all I was saying is I'm just telling you I think that's part of the solution here is yeah, we're gonna have to basically build up shelters We're gonna have to build up The problem now for example is Gavin Newsom says a lot of these things And now he's gone from a massive surplus to a $25 billion deficit overnight Which we talked about even a year ago because that was just the the law of numbers catching up with the state of California And he's not in a position now to do any of this stuff. So this one's problem may get worse Well, they did they did appropriate I forget the numbers like 10 billion or something out of that you know huge budget They had to solve the problem homeless's I would just argue they're not tackling it in the right way because what happened is There's a giant special interest that formed around this problem, which is the The building industry who gets these contracts to build the quote, you know, affordable housing or the Industrial complex So they end up building 10 units at a time on Venice Beach like the most expensive land You could possibly build because he get these contracts from the government So there's now a giant special interest in lobby that's formed around this if you really want to solve the problem you wouldn't be building housing On Venice Beach you'd be going to cheap land just outside the city totally and you'd be building scale shelters I mean shelters that can house 10,000 people not 10 and you'd be having I think I treated many yes, yeah, but when treatment built into them right you'd be solving this problem at scale and that's not what they're doing By the way, do you like you guys want to hear this week in Gryft? Oh sure Morally, that's a great example of Gryft. I I read something today in Bloomberg that was unbelievable There's about two trillion dollars of debt owned by the developing world That has been classified by a nonprofit the nature conservancy in this case as eligible for what they called nature swaps So this is two trillion of the umpteen trillions of debt that's about to get defaulted on by countries like Belize, Ecuador, Sri Lanka, Seychelles, you name it And what happens now are the big bulge bracket wall street banks and then nature conservancy Goes to these countries and says listen You know, you have a billion dollar trunch of debt. That's about to go upside down And you're going to be in default with the IMF will let you off the hook And you know, we will negotiate with those bondholders to give them 50 cents on the dollar But in return You have to promise to take some of that savings and you know protect the rainforest or protect a coral reef or protect some mangroatries All sounds good Except then what these folks do is they take that repackaged debt They call it ESG. They market back up and then they sell it to folks like block rock Who have decided that they must own this in the portfolio? So it literally just goes from one sleeve of black rock, which is now marked toxic Emerging market debt and then it gets into someone's 401k as ESG debt Is that unbelievable? So you could purchase a note and buy some ESG to make a shelf feel good. Yeah Two trillion dollars of ESG is that exon is like the number seven like top-ranked company according to ESG And Tesla is even on the list disastrous. How crazy is that? Yes It's a complete game All of those that we said this many times But each of those letters individually mean so much and should be worth a lot to a lot of people But when you stick them together it creates this toxic soup where you can just hide the cheese Yeah, I mean governance is important in companies of course the environment is important Social change is important. I mean, but why are these things grouped together in this? It's just perverse in industry jcal. It's an industry of it's all done. Absolutely. All right, speaking of risk Microsoft is gonna put 10 billion dollars or something in the chat GPT G-Generate AI as I'm calling it now is the hottest thing in Silicon Valley The technology is incredible. I mean you you can question the business model maybe but the technology is pretty well I mean, yes, so what I'd say is $49 billion for a company that's losing a billion dollars and Azure credits a year That's one way to work at it That's also a naive way to look at a lot of other businesses that ended up being worth a lot down the road I mean sure you can model out the future of a business like this and create a lot of really compelling big outcomes You know Potentially yeah So Microsoft is close to investing 10 billion in open AI in a very convoluted transaction that people are trying to understand It turns out that they might wind up owning 59% of open AI but get 75% of the cash and profits back over time 49% 49% yeah of open AI, but they would get paid back the 10 billion dollars over some amount of time and this obviously includes Azure credits and Chatt G P T as everybody knows this just incredible Demonstration of what AI can do in terms of text-based creation of content and answering queries Is taken the net by storm people are really inspired by it. It sacks. Do you think that this is a Defensible real technology? Do you think this is like a crazy hype cycle Well, it s definitely the next VC hype cycle everyone s kind of glomming on to this because VC really right now needs a Savior just look at the public markets everything we're investing in and send the toilets So we all really want to believe that this is going to be the next wave And just because something is a VC hype cycle doesn't mean that it's not true. So as I think one of our friends pointed out You know mobile turned out to be very real. I think cloud turned out to be I'd say very real. Social was sort of real in the sense that did lead to a few big winners On the other hand web 3 and crypto Was a hype cycle is turned into a big bus VR falls into the hype cycle. I think we are probably a hype cycle so far No one can even explain what web 3 is In terms of AI I think that if I had to guess I would say the hype is real in terms of its technological potential However, I'm not sure about how much potential there is yet for VCs to participate because right now It seems like this is something that's going to be done by really big companies So open AI is basically a It looks like time of a Microsoft proxy. You've got Google. I'm sure we'll develop it through their deep mind asset You know, I'm sure Facebook is going to do something huge in AI So what I don't know is is this really a platform that starts to be able to benefit from I will say that Some of the companies we invested in are starting to use these tools. So I guess I guess where I am is I think the technology is actually exciting I wouldn't go overboard on the valuations. So I wouldn't buy into that level of the hype But you think there could be hundreds of Companies built around an API for something like chat GBT dolly maybe yeah, I don't think startups are going to be able to create the AI themselves But they might be able to benefit from the APIs maybe that's the thing. That's the thing that has to be proven out free There's a lot of really fantastic machine learning Services available through cloud vendors today, right? So as there has been one of these kind of vendors and Uh, obviously open AI is building tools a little bit further down on the stack But there's a lot of tooling that can be used for specific vertical applications So obviously the acquisition of insta deep by bio and tech is a really solid example and most of the big dollars That are flowing in biotech right now are flowing into machine learning applications where there's some vertical application of machine learning tooling and techniques Around some specific problem set And the problem set of mimicking human communication and Doing generative media is a consumer application set that has a whole bunch of really interesting product opportunities But let's not kind of be blind to the fact that nearly every other industry And nearly every other vertical is being transformed today and there's active progress being made In funding and getting liquidity on companies and progress with actual products being driven by machine learning systems And there's a lot of great examples of this So you know the fundamental capabilities of large data sets and then using these kind of Learning techniques in software and statistical models to make Kind of predictions and drive businesses forward in a way that they're not able to with just human knowledge and human capability alone Is really real and it's here today And so I think let's not get caught up in the fact that there's this really interesting consumer market hype cycle going on where these tools are not being kind of You know validated and generating real value across many other verticals and segments Chimath when you look at this Microsoft open a a ideal and you see something that's this convoluted hard to understand What does that signal to you as a capital allocator and company builder? I would put deals into two categories one is easy and straightforward and then two is you know Cupid by half or you know the two hard bucket. This is clearly in that second category But it doesn't mean that it wasn't in that category Well, it doesn't mean that it won't work in our group chat with the rest of the guys One person said there's a lot of complex law when you Go from a nonprofit to a for-profit. There's lots of complexity in deal construction the original investors have certain Things that they want to see There may or may not be you know legal issues at play here that you encapsulated well in the last episode I think there's a lot of stuff we don't know So I think it's important to just like Give those folks the benefit of the doubt, but yeah, if you're asking me It's in the two hard bucket for me to really take seriously now that being said It's not like I got shown the deal So I can't I can't comment here's what I will say the first part of what sac said I think is really important for entrepreneurs to internalize Which is where can we make money? The reality is that Well, let me just take a prediction. I think that Google will open source their models because The most important thing that Google can do is reinforce the value of search And the best way to do that is to scorch the earth with these models Which is to make them widely available and as free as possible That will cause Microsoft to have to catch up and that will cause Facebook to have to really look in the mirror and decide Whether they're going to cap the betting that they've made on AR VR and Reallocate very aggressively to AI. I mentioned this in the I did this Lex Friedman podcast But that should be what Facebook does and the reason is If Facebook and Google and Microsoft have roughly the same capability in the same model There's an element of machine learning that I think is very important Which is called reinforcement learning and specifically it's reinforcement learning from human feedback right? So these RLHF pipelines these are the things That will make your stuff unique So if you're a startup You can build a reinforcement learning pipeline how you build a product that captures a bunch of usage We talked about this before that data set is unique to you as a company You can feed that into these models get back better answers you can make money from it Facebook has an enormous amount of reinforcement learning inside of Facebook every click Every comment every like every share Twitter has that data set Google inside of Gmail and search Microsoft inside of Minecraft and hotmail some my point is David's right the huge companies I think will create the substrates And I think there'll be forced to scorch the earth and give it away for free And then on top of that is where you can make money and I would just encourage entrepreneurs to think Where is my edge in creating a data set that I can use for reinforcement learning that I think is interesting That's kind of saying I buy the ingredients from the supermarket But then I can still construct a dish that's unique and you know the salt is there the pepper is there But how I use that will determine whether you like the thing or not And I think that you know that is the way that I think we need to start thinking about it interestingly As we've all pointed out here opening I was started as a non-profit The stated philosophy was this technology is too powerful for any company to own Therefore we're going to make it open source And then somewhere in the last couple years they said well, you know what actually it's too powerful for it to be out there in the public We need to make this a private company and we need to Get 10 billion dollars from Microsoft that is the disconnect. I am trying to understand that's the most interesting part of the story Jason, I think if you go back to 2014 is when Google bought deep mind Yeah, and immediately everyone started reacting to a company as powerful as Google having a toolkit and a team As powerful as deep mind within them and that that sort of power should not sit in anyone's hands I heard people that I'm close with that are close to the organization and the company Comment that they thought this is the most kind of scary threatening biggest threat to humanity Is Google's control of deep mind and that was a naive kind of point of view But it was one that was close that was deeply held by a lot of people So read Hoffman Peter Teal eel on musk a lot of these guys funded the original kind of open AI Business in 2015 and here's the link. So I'm putting it out here Um, you guys can pull up the original blog post do all those don't people who donated get stock in so what happened was I'm not it was all in a nonprofit and then the nonprofit owned stock in a commercial business now But your point is interesting because at the beginning the idea was instead of having google on all of this will make it all available And here's the the statement from the original blog post in 2015 open AI is a nonprofit AI research company Our goal is to advance digital intelligence and the way that is most likely to benefit humanity as a whole Unconstrained by a need to generate financial return Since our research is free from financial obligations We can better focus on a positive human impact and they you know kind of went on and the whole thing about Sam Greg you'll on read Jessica Peter teal AWS YC are all donating to support open AI Including donations and commitments of over a billion dollars Although we expect that to only be a tiny fraction of what we will spend in the next few years Which is a really interesting kind of If you look back historical perspective on how this thing all started seven years ago And how quickly it's evolved as you point out Into the necessity to have a real commercial alignment to drive this thing forward without seeing any of these models open sourced And during that same same period of time we've seen google share alpha fold and share a number of times are to predict the models And toolkits and make them publicly available and put them In google's cloud and so there's both kind of tooling and models and outputs of those models that google has open sourced and made freely available And meanwhile open AI has kind of diverged into this deeply profitable profit seeking kind of enterprise model And when you invest in open AI In the round that they did before You could generate a financial return capped at 100x Which is still a pretty amazing financial return you put a billion dollars in you can make a hundred billion dollars That's that's funding a real commercial And never at that point well and then to it is the most striking question about this whole thing about what's going on in our AI And it's one that you once talked about publicly and others have kind of sat on one side or the other which is that AI Offers a glimpse into one of the biggest and most kind of existential threats to humanity and The question we're all going to be tackling and the battle that's going to be happening politically and regulatory wise And perhaps even between nations in the years to come is who owns the AI who owns the models what can they do with it And what are we legally going to be allowed to do with it? And this is a really important part of that story. Yeah To build on what you're saying I just put in pie torch people don't know that's another framework PYTORCH This was you know large you built inside a Facebook and then Facebook said hey We want to democratize machine learning and they made and I think they put a bunch of executives They may have even funded those executives to go work on this open source project So they have a huge stake in this and they went Very open source with it and then TensorFlow which you have an investment in Trimoth TensorFlow was inside of all I don't I don't have it Investment in TensorFlow. We build TensorFlow the public source came out of Google and then you invested in another company Well, we were building silicon for machine learning. That's different. Right. But it's based on TensorFlow No, no, no, no, no The the founder of this company was the founder of TensorFlow. Oh god I'm sorry not of TensorFlow part of me of the of TPU Which was Google's internal silicon that they built to accelerate TensorFlow right if that makes sense And so that's the I don't mean to be cynical about the whole project or not It's just the confounding part of this of what is happening here. It reminds me. I don't know if you remember this The biggest opportunity here the biggest opportunity here is for Facebook I mean they need to get in this conversation ASAP. I mean to think that like look PyTorch was like a pretty seminal piece of technology that a lot of folks in In AI and machine learning were using for a long time TensorFlow before that and what's so funny about like Google and Facebook is they're a little bit kind of like They're not really making that much progress. I mean Facebook released this kind of like Randho version of Alpha fold recently. It's not that good I think these companies really need to get these products in the wild as soon as possible It cannot be the case that you have to email people and get on some list. I mean this is Google and Facebook guys come on Get this is the I think the big innovation of open AI sacks to bring you in the conversation They actually made an interface and let the public play with it to the tune of three million dollars a day and cloud credits or costs Which by the way just on that my my son was telling me he's like hey dad Do you want me to tell you when the best time to use chat GPT is I'm like huh? He's like yeah my friends and I try we've been using it so much. We know now When we can actually get resources. Oh wow and it's such an interesting thing. We're like a 13 year old kid knows You know when it's mostly compute intensive that it's unusable and when to come back and use it When someone has time sacks the technology became this mainstream and capture people's imagination this broadly Uh, it's been a while. I don't know. Maybe iPhone or something. Yeah. Yeah, look. It's powerful. There's there's no questions powerful I mean I'm of two minds about it because whenever something is the hype cycle I just reflexively want to be skeptical of it But on the other hand we have made a few investments in this area and I mean, I think it is powerful and it's it's going to be an enabler of some really cool things to come There's no question about it. I have two pieces of more insider information One I have a chat GPT iOS app on my phone one of the nice folks at open AI included me in the test flight And it's the simplest interface you've ever seen but basically you type in your question But it keeps your history and then you can search your history So it looks sacks like you're in i-message Basically and it has your threads And so I asked that hey, what are the best restaurants in yawntville? It's a town near Napa and then I said which one has the best up And it literally like gave me a great answer and then I thought wait a second Why is this not using a Siri or Alexa like interface And then why is in it? Oh, here's a video of it. I gave the video to neck. By the way Jason this what you're doing right now is you're creating a human feedback Reinforcement learning pipeline for chat GPT So just the fact that you ask that question and you know over time if chat GPT has access to your GPS information And then knows that you went to restaurant a versus b Yes, it can intuit and it it may actually prompt you to ask hey Jason We noticed you were in the area Did you go to butega if you did how would you rate it one through five That reinforcement learning now allows the next person that asks what are the top five restaurants to say well You know over a thousand people that have asked this question here's actually the best answer versus a generic rank of the open web Which is what the first data set is that's what's so interesting about this. So this is why If you're a company that already owns the eyeballs You have to be running to get this stuff out there Well, and then this answer and you're cited Yelp This is the first time I've actually seen chat GPT site And this is I think a major legal breakthrough. It didn't put a link in But if it's going to use Yelp's data I don't know if they have permission from Yelp but it's quoting Yelp here It should link to French laundry, butega and Bouchon Bouchon actually has the best duck Confit for the record and I did have that duck so I asked this afterwards to see You know in a scenario like this, but it could also if I was talking to it I could say hey, which one has availability this afternoon or tomorrow for dinner And make the phone call for me like Google Assistant does or any number of I was thinking about next tasks at this was an incredibly powerful Display in a 1.0 product. I was thinking about what you said last week and I thought back to the music industry and In the world of Napster and What happened was there was a lot of musicians. I think Metallica being the most Famous one famously suing Napster because it was like hey listen like you're allowing people to take my content Which they would otherwise pay for there's economic damage that I can measure That legal argument was meaningful enough that ultimately Napster was shut down now There are other versions of that that folks created including us at Winamp we created a headless version of that But if you translate that problem set here Is there a claim that Yelp can make in this example that they're losing money That you know if you were going through Google Or if you are going through their app There's the sponsored link revenue and the advertising revenue that they would have got that they wouldn't get from here Now that doesn't mean that chat GPT can't figure that out But it's those kinds of problems that are going to be a little thorny in these next Few years that have to really get figured out This is a If you're a human reading every review on Yelp about duck Then you could write a blog post in what you say many reviewers on Yelp say that Bouchon is the best duck So the question is like is GPT helped to that standard or exactly or something different And it's linking to it is linking to it enough. This is the question that I'm asking I don't know it should be because I'll argue it should be because if you look at the four-part test for fair use Which I had to go through because blogging had the same issue we would write a blog post And we would mention Walt Mossberg's review of a product and somebody else's and then people would say oh I don't need to read Walt Mossberg's in need of Wall Street Journal subscription And we say well, we're doing an original work. We're comparing two or three different You know human is comparing two or three different Reviews and we're adding something to it. It's a you know, it's it's not a uh It's not interfering with what Mossberg's ability to get subscribers in the Wall Street Journal But the effect on the potential market is one of the four tests and just reading from Stanford's Quote on fair use another important fair use factors whether you're used to Prives the copyright owner of income or undermines a new or potential market for the copyrighted work Depriving a copyright owner of income is very likely to trigger a lawsuit This is true even if you are not competing directly with the original work And we'll put the link to Stanford here. This is the key issue and I would not use Yelp in this example I would not open the Yelp app Yelp would get no commerce and Yelp would lose this so chat gpt And all these services must use citations of where they got the original work They must link to them and they must get permission. That's where this is all going to shake out And I'll leave that Well, forgive our permission. I mean you can't get a big enough data set if you have to get permission in advance Right you go out and go It's it's going to be the large data sets Quora Yelp The app store reviews Amazon's reviews so there are large corpses of data that you would need like Craigslist has famously never allowed anybody to scrape Craigslist The amount of data inside Craigslist as but one example of a data set would be extraordinary to build chat gpt on Chat gpt is not allowed to because you as you brought up robots dot tst last week There's going to need to be an AI dot txt are you allowed to use my data set in AI and under and how Will you I be compensated for it? I'll allow you to use Craigslist, but you have to link to the original post And you have to note that the other great area that isn't there today, but may Emerge is when section 230 gets rewritten because if they take the protections away for the Facebook and the Google's of the world for the basically for being an algorithm Make publisher and saying an algorithm is equivalent to a publisher What it essentially saying is that an algorithm is kind of like doing the work of a human in a certain context And I wonder whether that's also an angle here, which now this algorithm which today David you use you said the example I read all these blog posts I write something but if an algorithm does it maybe can you then say no actually there was intent there That's different than if a human were to do it. I don't know my point is Very complicated issues that are going to get sorted out and I think the problem with the hype cycle Is that you're going to have to marry it with an economic model for vcs to really make money And right now there's just too much betting on the come so to the extent you're going to invest It makes sense that you put money into open AI because that's safe Because the economic model of how you make money for everybody else is so unclear Right, it's clear actually I have it for business I just signed up for chat gpt premium. They had a survey that they shared on their discord server And I filled out the survey and they did a price discovery survey Freeberg What's the least you would pay the most you would pay what would be too cheap of a price for chat gpt pro And what would be too high of a price I put in like 50 bucks a month would be what I would pay But I was just thinking imagine chat gpt allowed you freeberg to have a slack channel called research And you could go in there or anytime you're in slack you do slash chat or slash chat gpt And you say slash chat gpt tell me You know, what are the venues available in which we did this actually for I did this for venues for all in some right to what are the venues that seat over 3000 people in Vegas and it just gave us the answer. Okay. Well, that was the job of a of the local Event planner they had that list now you can pull that list from a bunch of different sources I mean, what would you pay for that a lot? Well, I think one of the big things that's happening is all the old business models Don't make sense anymore In a world where the software is no longer just doing what it's done for the last 60 years Which is what is historically defined as information retrieval? So you have this kind of hierarchical storage of data That You have some index against and then you go and you search and you pull data out And then you present that data back to the customer or the user of the software and that's effectively been how all kind of data Has been utilized in all systems for the past 60 years and computing Largely what we've really done is kind of built an evolution of application layers or software tools to interface with the fetching of that data The retrieval of that data and the display of that data But what these systems are now doing what AI type systems or machine learning systems now do is the synthesis of that data And the representation of some synthesis of that data to you the user in a way that doesn't necessarily look anything like the original data That was used to make that synthesis and that's where business models like a Yelp for example Or like a web crawler that crawls the web and then presents web page directories to you Those sorts of models no longer make sense in a world where the software the signal to noise is now greater The signal is greater than the noise And being able to present to you a synthesis of that data and basically resolve what your objective is with your own Consumption and interpretation of that data, which is how you historically use these systems And I think that's where there's you know going back to the question of the hype cycle I don't think it's about being a hype cycle I think it's about the the investment opportunity against fundamentally rewriting all compute tools Because if all compute tools ultimately can use This capability in their interface and in their modeling Then it very much changes everything And one of the advantages that I think businesses are going to latch onto which we talked about historically Is novelty in their data in being able to build new systems and new models That aren't generally available Example in biotech and pharma for example having Screening results from from very expensive Experiments and running lots of experiments and having a lot of data against those experiments gives a company and an advantage In being able to do things like drug discovery and we're going to talk about that in a minute Versus everyone using publicly known screening libraries or publicly available protein modeling libraries And then screening against those and then everyone's got the same candidates and the same targets and the same You know kind of clinical objectives that they're going to try and resolve from from that output So um, so I think novelty and data Is is one way that advantage uh kind of arises but really you know, that's just kind of you know, where's their an edge But fundamentally every business model can and and will need to be rewritten that's Depended on the historical On the legacy of kind of information retrieval as the core of what computing is is used to do Sacks on my other podcast. I was having a discussion with Molly about legal profession What impact would it be if chant GPT took every court case Every argument every document and somebody took all of those Legal cases on the legal profession and then the filing of a lawsuit the defending of a lawsuit Public defenders prosecutors what what data could you figure out like if it and like just to think of the recent history You look at Chesa, Boudin you could literally take Every case every argument he did put it through it and say you know versus an outcome in another state and you could Uh figure out what's actually going on with this technology impact of this have On the legal field that you are a non-practicing attorney. You know a legal degree. I never practiced Other than one summer it'll offer but no, I think you passed the bar. What's I did pass the bar. Yes. Yes. I did try Yes, of course, of course, yeah, you gotta be kind of done to fail I'm rated 18. I'm staying come on. I may not have passed the bar, but I know a little shit Enough to know that you can't leave I would be curious in terms of a very common question That a an associated a law firm would get asked would be something like you know summarize the legal precedence in favor of X Right and that you can imagine GPT doing that like instantly now. I think that the question about that. I think there's two questions one is Can you prompt GPT in the right way to get the answer you want and I think you know, Tremoth you shared a really interesting video Showing that people are developing some skills around knowing how to ask GPT questions in the right way Exact prompt engineering why because GPT is a command line interface So if you ask GPT a simple question about what's the best restaurant in you know Napa It knows how to answer that but there are much more complicated questions that you kind of need to know how to prompt it in the right way So it's not clear to me that a command line interface is the best way of doing that I could imagine apps developing that create more of like a GUI So we're an investor for example on copy AI, which is doing this for copywriters and marketers helping them write blog posts and emails and so you know Imagine putting that like you know GUI on top of chat GPT they've already been kind of doing this So I think that's part of it. I think the other part of it is on the answer side You know how accurate is it? Because in some professions having 90 or 95 or 99% accuracy is okay But in other professions you need six nines accuracy meaning 99 point 999% accuracy Okay, so I think for a lawyer Going into court, you know, you probably need I don't know. I mean depends on the on the brain Yeah, it's a fucking ticket versus a murder trial is too very different. Yeah exactly So is 99% accuracy good enough is 95% accuracy good enough. I would say probably For a court case 95% is probably not good enough. I'm not sure GPT's at even 95% yet But could it be helpful? I could could could the associate start With chat GPT get an answer and then validate it probably yeah if you had a bunch of associates Bang on some law model for a year The game that's that reinforcement learning we just talked about I think you'd get precision recall off the charts and it would be perfect By the way, just a cute thing. I don't know if you guys got this email It came about an hour ago from read Hoffman and read said to me H. Moth. I I created fireside chatbots A special podcast mini series Where I will be having a set of conversations with chat GPT So you can go to YouTube by the way and and see read Having and he's a very smart guy so this should be kind of cool And by the way chat GPT will have an AI generated voice Powered by the text-to-speech platform play dot ht Go to YouTube if you want to see read have a Have a conversation with chat GPT. I mean, Tramoth we have a conversation with the two davids every week What's the difference we know how this is gonna turn out? Hey, but actually synthesizing Tramoth's point about reinforcement learning with something you said jcal and our chat Which I actually thought was pretty smart. Well, that's first. Yeah, so I'm gonna give you credit here because I don't think you've said it on this This episode which is you said That these open AI capabilities are again eventually gonna become commoditized or certainly much more widely available I don't know if that means that they'll be totally commoditized or there'll be four players But there'll be multiple players that offer them and you said the real advantage will come from Applications that are able to get a hold of proprietary data sets And then use those proprietary data sets to generate insights and then layering on what's most about reinforcement learning If you can be the first out there in a given vertical with a proprietary data set and then you get the advantage the mo of reinforcement learning That would be the way to create I think a sustainable business just to build on what you said This week is the JP Morgan conference Freeberg mentioned it last week. I did her on Wednesday with this really interesting company based in Zurich and What they have is basically a library of ligands right and so these ligands are used as a substrate to deliver all kinds of molecules inside the body And what's interesting is that they have a portfolio of like a thousand of these But really what they have is they have all the nuclear medicine about whether it works So you know they're they target glial blastoma glue blastoma and so all of a sudden they can they can say well This ligand can actually cross the blood-bane barrier and get to the brain They have an entire data set of that a whole bunch of nuclear imagery around that they have something for Soft cell carcinoma so then they have that data set so to your point That's really valuable because that's real work that Google or Microsoft or open AI I Won't do right and if you have that and you bring it to the problem You can probably make money, you know, there's a business there to be built Just building on this conversation. I just realized like a great prompt engineer is going to become a title and an actual scale The ability to interface with these here you go. Hey eyes cool to point out Well, no prompt engineer somebody who's very good at talking to These you know instances and and maximizing the result for them and refining the results for them Just like a detective who asked great questions The that person is going to be 10 or 20 times more valuable They could be the proverbial 10x engineer in the future of as a as in a company And as we talk about austerity and doing more with less than the 80% less people running Twitter now or Amazon laying off 18,000 people sales force laying off 8,000 Facebook laying off 10 and probably another 10,000 What catalytic effect like could this have we can be sitting here in 304 or 5 years and Instead of running a company like Twitter with 80% less people maybe you could run it with 98% less people Look, I think directionally it's the the right statement. I mean, you know I've made the statement a number of times that I think we move from this idea of Creator economy to narrator economy where historically was kind of labor economy where humans use their physical labor to do things Then we were knowledge workers. We used our our brains to to make things And then ultimately we kind of I think resolve to this narrator economy where the the way that you kind of can state Intention and better manipulate the tools to drive your intentional outcome the more successful you're gonna be And you can kind of think about this as being the artist of the past Da Vinci was What made him so good was he was technically Incredible at trying to reproduce a photographic like imagery using Using paint and there's these really great kind of museum exhibits on how you did it using these really interesting kind of like split mirror systems and then the better the artist of the 21st century the 20th century was the best user of Adobe Photoshop And that person is not necessarily the best painter and the artist of the 22nd century isn't gonna look like the Photoshop Expert and it's not gonna look like the the the painter It's gonna look like something entirely different. It could be who's who's got the most creative imagination In driving the software to drive new outcomes And I think that the same analogy can be used across every market in every industry However, one thing to note jcl it's it's not about austerity because the the the blood-eyed argument is When you have new tools and you get more leverage from those tools You have less work for people to do and therefore everyone suffers The reality is new work emerges and new opportunities emerge and we level up as a species And when we level up we all kind of fill the gaps and expand our productivity and our capability set I thought what jcl was saying was more that Google will be smaller didn't mean that the pie wouldn't grow It's just that that individual company is run differently But there would be hundreds of more companies or thousands more millions. Yeah, that's sort of I have an actual punch up for you Yeah, instead of narrative. It's the conductor economy. It's you're you're conducting a symphony. Oh a bunch up Punch up there, but I do think like we're gonna there's gonna be somebody who's sitting there like Remember Tom Cruise in minority report as a detective was moving stuff around with a interface the in yeah, you know with the gloves and everything This is kind of that manifested you could even if you're not an attorney You can say hey, I want to sue this company for copyright infringement give me my best arguments And then on the other side say hey, I want to know what the next three features I should put into my product is Can you examine who are my top 20 competitors and then who have they hired in the last six months and one of those people talking about on You know you can have this conductor You know who becomes really good at that? Well the less some Well the less you know the tasks. Yeah, the leveling up that happens in the book Ender's game I think is a good example of this where the guy goes through the entire kind of ground up And then ultimately he's commanding armies of Spaceships and space and his orchestration of all of these armies is actually the skill set that wins the war Yeah, we predicted that there would be like all these people that create these next gen forms of content But I think this read Hoffman thing could be pretty cool like what if he wins a Grammy For his you know computer created podcast mini series that's what saying I the thing I'm really excited about when's the first AI novel gonna get published by a major publisher I think it happens this year when's the first AI symphony gonna get performed by major symphony orchestra And when's the first AI generated screenplay get turned into an AI generated 3d movie that we all watch and then the more exciting one I think is when do we all get to make our own AI video game where we instruct the video game platform What a world we want to live it. I don't think that's happening for the next three or four years But when it does I think everyone's got these new immersive environments that they can live in I have a question when For the one you say live in I mean video game wise. Yes, right? When you have when you have these computer systems Just like to use a question of game theory for a second there These models are iterating rapidly these are all mathematical models So inherent in let's just say this the perfect answer right like if you had perfect precision recall If Multiple models get there at a system wide level everybody is is sort of like they get to the Game theory optimal. They're all at Nash equilibrium, right? All these systems working at the same time Then the real question would then be what the hell do you do then? Because if you keep getting the same answer if everybody then knows how to ask the exact right question And you start to go through these iterations where you're like maybe there is a dystopian hellscape With her own little jobs. Maybe that's the Elon World, which is you can you can recursively Find a logical argument where there is no job that's possible Right and now I'm not saying that that path is the likely path But I'm saying it is important to keep in mind that that path of outcomes is still very important to keep in the back of our mind as we figure these things out Well freeberg, you know, you were asking before about this like you know Will more work be created of course artistic pursuits at podcasting is a job now being an influencer is a job Yada Yada new things emerge in the world But here in the United States in 1970. I'm looking at um Fred I'm looking at the statement was fed 26.4% of the country was working in a factory was working in manufacturing you want to guess what that is? in 2012 Sorry, one percentage it was 26% in 1970 and in 2015 when they stopped the percentage in manufacturing I say it's it they discontinued this it was a 10 So it's possible we could just see you know The concept of office work the concept of knowledge work is going to follow pretty inevitable the path of manufacturing That that seems like a pretty logical the area or no I think we shouldn't move on Okay, so how would we like to ruin the show now? Should we talk about Biden and the documents and ruin the show with political dog or should we dog about This has been such a great episode so far. What do we want to talk about next? I know you don't want to talk about Uh, you guys are talking about Give it to give it to give it to give it to We all know we all know Jay cale that according to you when a president Is in possession of classified documents in his home. Yes, apparently have been taken an unauthorized man are basically stolen He should have his home rated by the FBI almost close close yeah, if So anyway The Biden as of the taping of this has now said there's a third batch of classified documents this group I guess there was one at an office one at a library now this third group is in his garage with this corvette Certainly not looking good and independent. They say they say that in his defense They say the garage was locked meaning that uh, you could use a garage door opener to Open a closet that's what it was locked when it went close so pretty much as secure as the documents at barilago Same equivalency no, no, no, I would actually I mean just to be perfectly fair the documents in maralaga were locked in a basement The FBI came checked it out Said we'd like you to lock those up. They locked them up. So got a little safer than being a little safer than in the truck of your car vet But functionally the same functionally the same uh the only difference here would be what sacks when you look at these two cases Well that in one case Merrick Garland is appointed independent counsel to investigate Trump and there's no such a special counsel or investigator appointed To investigate Biden. I mean, yeah, these things are functionally Do you put somebody on it though? Wait, they put it I don't think they've appointed a special counsel yet. No, they did as of an hour ago a special counsel was appointed Okay, did that just happen? Yeah, one hour ago a Robert hers his name. Okay. I guess there are real questions to look into here The documents apparently were moved twice why were they moved to ordered that what was a classified document doing in Biden's personal library What did the documents pertain to Do they touch on the Biden family's business dealings in Ukraine and China? So there are real things to look into here But let me just take a step back Now that the last three presidential candidates have been ensnared in these classified document problems Remember it's Biden now and then Trump and Hillary Clinton before Trump I think it's time to step back and ask Are we overclassifying documents? I mean are we fetishizing these documents? Are they all really that sensitive? It seems to me that we have an overclassification problem meaning that Ever since FOIA was passed the Freeman Information Act The government can avoid accountability and and prying eyes by simply labeling any document is classified So overclassification was a logical response by the permanent government to the Freeman Information Act And now is gotten to the point where just about everything handed to a president or vice president is classified So I think I can understand why they're all making this mistake And I think a compounding problem is that we never declassify anything There's still all these records from the Kennedy assassination. Well, that's I've never been classified. They and they're supposed to have declassified these the CIA Keeps filibustering on the release of the JFK assassination documents And they've been told they they have to stop and they have to release them and then they keep redacting stuff And now we see it. I mean I hate to be a conspiracy theorist here But what are they trying to cover up? I mean, this is a long time ago. That's only when I interpret it But even for more mundane documents There are very few documents that need to be classified after even say five years You could argue that we should be automatically declassifying them after five years unless they go through a process to get reclassified I mean, I'd say like Well, just you guys in business. I know it's not government in business How many of the documents that you deal with are still sensitive or trade secrets five years later So it's only 20 years. Certainly 20 years later. They're not right like in almost five years I mean the only documents in business that I think I deal with that you could call sensitive Are the ones that pertain to the company's Future plans right because you wouldn't want to come out of here to get those Yeah, there's a handful of things right? Legal issues. Yeah, even capital is not that sensitive because by the time you go public It's legally has to be public. Yeah, it's on card like there's a hundred people who have that. I mean it's exactly So like in business, I think our experience has been there's very few documents that stay sensitive that need to remain secret now look if Biden or Trump or whoever they're reviewing the schematics To the javelin missile system or to you know how we make our nuclear bombs or something obviously that needs to say secret forever But I don't believe our politicians are reviewing those kinds of documents Well, we both I don't really understand what it is that they're reviewing why are they keeping them to be classified five years later? And why are they keeping them with the issue we discussed previously we actually agreed on that I think they're just keeping my mouth. I think there's a simple explanation for why they're keeping them Jason Which is that the that everything is more classified and there's a zillion documents And if you look like both Biden and Trump these documents were mixed in with a bunch of personal effects And mementos my point is if you work in government and handle documents they're all classified So I mean if the national archive asked for them back or you find them you should just give them back I mean that is that's going to be the rug here Trump didn't give them back and But I did but that's the only difference here. Well, no, no, no hold on the FBI went to Trump's basement They looked around they said put a lock on this they seem to be okay with it initially Then maybe they changed their minds. I don't know. I'm not defending Trump. I was pretty clear that he wouldn't give them back in that was the point I'm making is that now that Biden Trump and Hillary Clinton have all been ensnared in this Is it time to rethink the fact that we're overclassifying so many documents? I mean just think about the incentives that That we're creating for our politicians. Okay, just think about the incentives number one never use email Remember he'll be clinging the whole email server. Yeah, you got to be nuts to use email number two Never touch a document never touch a document. What never let anyone hand you a document flush them down the toilet Never let anyone hand you a document If you're a politician an elected official Yeah, the only time you should ever be handling anything is going to a clean room right You know making a appointment going to read something don't take notes Don't bring a camera and then leave. I mean. This is no way to run a government It's crazy. Who does this benefit? It doesn't benefit it doesn't benefit our elected officials. It makes it almost impossible For them to act like normal people that's what it benefits the insiders the permanent government You're missing the most important part about the sex This was if you want to go into conspiracy theories This was a setup Biden planted the documents here we go. So that we could create the false equivalency And start up Biden versus Trump 2024 this ensures that now Trump has something to fight with Biden about but and this is gonna help Trump's are both tainted equally tainted. Yeah, the same sort they are they are equally tainted now, but I Know cycle. No, I think but I think it's the opposite. I think Merrick Arlen now is gonna have to drop The prosecution against Trump for the stolen documents or at least that part of what they're investigating him for They might still investigate him over January six or something. They can't investigate from over Those two seems more sticky. Yeah, I agree with that actually. I think it's gonna be hard to do But my point is like just think about look, but both sides are engaged in hyperparsanship the way Right now the that the conservatives and the right they're attacking Biden now for the same thing that the left was attacking Trump for my point is Like just take a step back and again think about the incentives We're creating about how to run our government. You can't use email and you can't touch documents And everything's in investigation the second you get in office And by the way if you're don't ever go into politics if you're a business person Because they'll investigate every deal you ever did prior prior to getting into politics I mean, what are you gonna do when you try to get your treasury position? What's gonna have be nuts? You got to be nuts to go in a dogma You're not gonna take a position in That the that the that the Washington insiders by which I mean the permanent Washington establishment IE the deep state they're creating a system In which they're running things and the elected officials barely can operate like normal functioning humans there Hmm interesting. I heard a great rumor. Is this total gossip mongering? Oh here we go uh That you know one of Ken Griffin's best out is To get to Santa selected so that he can become treasury secretary. I mean Ken Griffin would get that if he wanted it And then he would be able to divest all of citadel tax-free So he would mark the market like 30 billion dollars, which is a genius way to go out now then it occurred to me Oh my god, that is me and sacks is path to ha ha ha ha ha ha with a lot less money but Wait, why would it be tax-free? When you get appointed to those branch those senior posts you're allowed to either stick it in a blind trust or you can sell with no capital gains What? What? Well because they want you they want you to divest one thing that can yes anything that presents a conflict They want you to divest and so the argument is if you have if you're forced to divest it to enter a government you shouldn't be forced I'm mayor of San Francisco or Austin Secretary of transportation jc. Oh you can do that. Oh, I'm qualified for that I've taken the bus. I got an electric bike to answer freeberg's point. I think citadel securities There's a lot of folks that would buy that because that's just a securities trading business And then citadel the hedge fund Probably something like a big bulge bracket bank or blackstone probably blackstone in fact because now blackstone can plug it into A trillion dollar asset machine. It's a I think there would be Buyers out the door. This is this is an incredible grift now. I know why sacks. It's not a grift at all But it's a it's an incredible come on man a cabinet position for no-cav gains Well, that's not a grift. That's like those are the laws They force to sell everything And then you do public service. I think you're I think you're misusing the word to continue to genu-flect the the left A little defense And that or your dumb You take a cabinet position Where does that exist? Yes, act if you were asked to serve look any normal person who wants to serve in government You can't use email and you can't touch a document and every deal you've ever done gets investigated That's yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, I mean All studying that you get to divest tax free Me think now doc for test death too much David sucks. I think you to know this rule And No, I know it's like a well-known person. I know this rich people No, I I looked up grift every one of these it means that to engage in a petty or small-scale swindle I don't think selling a 31 billion dollar Yeah, no, it's not small combination of black rock and black stone would be considered a petty small scale Did any of you guys watch the mad off series on Netflix? No, no, oh my god. It is so So depressing. I gotta say like just that mat that mad off series. There is no Glimmer of light or hope or positivity or Recourse everyone is a victim everyone suffers. It is just so dark. Don't watch it. It's so depressing The main I have the one is so depressing. It's so awful. They kill themselves and die Like all the one guy's one guy died of cancer Perfect pick card. I didn't realize all this the trustee that when it got the money He went and got money back from these people who were 80 years old and retired and it spent that money decades ago And he sued them and took their homes away from them and no one and they had no one one part of the scam No one no one won. It was a brutal awful all thing. Yeah By the way, that's gonna be really interesting as we enter this SPF trial because That is the track that is what happens if you go That's why the other district of New York said that this case is becoming too big for them because all the places that SPF said money all those Packs and all those political donations before they have to go and investigate Where that money went and see if they can get it back and it's gonna open up an investigation and to each one of these campaign finance An election and kind of interfering Pro public. I sorry pro publica. Yeah, on the other end of the spectrum I did watch this weekend Triangle of sadness. Have you guys? I watched it too. Who's great? Oh my god I'm sad this is great. It's so dark to the david's Listen, this is one of the if I thought it was it didn't pay off the way I thought But this is one of the best setups you'll see in a movie. So basically it's a bunch of people on an on a luxury yacht So you have a bunch of rich people as the guests then you have the staff that interacts with them Mm-hmm, and this is like mostly Caucasian and then under in the bowels of the ship what you see are Asian and black workers that support them Okay, so the it in some ways is a little bit of a microcosm of the world Oh, I think a microcosm of something else and then and then what happens is there's like a shipwreck basically Yeah, I don't spoil it come on Okay, and so but no, but I'll just say it so so the plot is you have this Caucasian patriarchy That that gets flips outside upside down because after the shipwreck the only person who knows how to make a fire and catch the fish Is the Filipino woman who is in charge of cleaning the toilets? So she becomes in charge. So now you flip to this immigrant matriarchy pretty great meditation on class and Survival it's it's pretty well done. It didn't end well. I thought I thought yeah, yeah, it's well it's hard to wrap that one up Well, you know what they say boys still a little and they throw you in jail still a lot and they make you king Uh famous Bob Dylan quote All right, well this has been a great episode great to see you besties Uh, austerity menu tonight. Tramoth. What's on the austerity menu tonight? What are we doing salad? Uh, some tuna sandwiches. No, I think I think Kirsten is doing uh, I think derod Derod yeah, that's yeah, that's a good fish I Wanted a great derod in Venice and Venice From Yeah, I'm so good. I agree when it's done well the derod kicks us. There's only one way to cook a derod Do you know what that is? You got to you got to it's the way they did in Venice. You got to cook the whole fish Yeah, yeah, okay, and then after you cook the fish then you Do you don't it right and uh, yeah, that's the way to do that was back when saxon. I used to enjoy shows this company But was podcast me as a immortal editor. Jacob. I'm a little disappointed. You couldn't agree with my take on this scandalous scandal instead of dunking in a partisan way. I tried to explain why it was a problem of our whole political system I like your theory. I I think You know you keep too much to find Biden I think Biden's a grifter I told you guys are grifting Just think you're I just think you're party grifter a little bit more But yeah compare your grift. Are we gonna play Saturday after the wildcard game? Are you guys interested in playing Saturdays? Well, because I got the hot pass. I can I can do a game inside I don't know. I have to check with my boss. Who's going to the are you guys all going? sax are you gonna come to play poker about that livestream thing for the day? I doubt it. No Hmm he doesn't want to interact with humans. That does not play well in confirmation hearings No, the last time I did one of those Alan Keating destroyed me on camera Like true. I had two feet and every time he bluffed I fold and every time he had the the nuts I called it was brutal That's true. Now you know what that was about a shalacking a classic sax You're saving things that what's going on here? No, no, no Preserving now. I just I don't know. It has to do with a cabinet positions. He doesn't need to be seen recklessly gambling So badly you could do any cabinet position sax which one would it be? state Treasury states a lot of travel say the world travel you never stay at home. You're always on a plane I don't know that those like cabinet positions are that important I mean they run these giant bureaucracies that again are permanent you can't fire anyone Yeah, if you can't fire a person do they really report to you? Right I mean, it's a great sort of idea. It comes idea was like put a bunch of hardline CEO type people in charge haven't blow up these things and make them more efficient didn't really work today Yeah, well, you know why a CEO is actually in charge like Elon he walks in if he doesn't like what you're doing He'll just fire you you can't fire anyone. How do you manage them when they don't have to listen to anything you say that's our whole government right now Oh Our cabinet heads our figureheads For for these departments these giant apartments. Is that a no or is that a yes you'd still take state Look at that What is the best ambassador ship? Well, you can't you can't Everything Yes, you can tell which and bastard ship is the best one based on how much they charge for it. Yeah, so I think I think London is the most expensive I think 10 million for London 10 to 15 million yeah, yeah, 10 15 million That's that's what sacks is Fourth least expensive home cost No, no, you have to spend that every year to run adjacent you only get you got to fix him You could be the ambassador to guinea or the ambassador to the UK you get the same budget actually what's kind of funny is I know two people who serve as ambassadors under Trump Yeah, it was really cheap to get those because no one no one wanted to be part of the Trump administration But no one fire sell two for one they were on a they're on fire sale after because of Trump But who wants to be tainted the by the way one of them and you can just beep out the name Was telling me it was the best thing because he ended up selling nearly get the all-time eyes to take the job He was like I got to get out of all of this stuff. No, but listen Let me tell you the the ambassadors ships. I was it was a smart trade by those guys because Em ambassadors a lifetime title. So you're a ambassador whatever no one remembers was president when you are ambassador no one cares So you are going for the ambassador. So stay I think it's fair to say I think he's going to Ambassador I'm not I'm not interested in ceremonial things. I'm interested in making an impact And the problem with all these positions. I mean being a cabinet official is not much different than being an ambassador So you're gonna you're gonna enlist in the Navy? You know what what what has a bigger impact Being on all in pod being an ambassador who's more influential Sacks on the all in pod or beep as the ambassador Sweden Be all in pod actually all in pod is more Impactful by the way, this is why I take issue with your statement about the term mainstream media because I think you have become the mainstream media More than most of the folks that know right in the kind of media. We're independent media trust me. It's independent I can read and stop genuine reflecting It's independent. We Know that this thing's gonna last another three episodes. I just like saying the word genuine. I know you like genuine Flexing and I guess that is the top word of 2023 so far for me. Oh, is that is somebody doing an analysis with Chad J. P. T. over the words you see here. No, but sax brought that word up. It was just so it's a wonderful word. It's it's not used enough All right everybody. We'll see you next time on the all in podcast comments are turned back on have at it you animals Love you guys love you besties. Bye Oh We should all just get a room and just have one big huge or two because they're all It's like this like sexual tension that we just need to release that out What your big I'm doing
