 Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Sam Harris. Dr. Sam Harris did his undergraduate training in philosophy at Stanford University and then went on to do his doctorate in neuroscience at the University of California at Los Angeles. He is well known as an author who has written about everything from meditation to consciousness, free will, and he holds many strong political views that he's voiced on social media and in the content of various books as they relate to philosophy and neuroscience. During today's episode, I mainly talk to Dr. Harris about his views and practices related to meditation, consciousness, and free will. In fact, he made several important points about what a proper meditation practice can accomplish. Prior to this episode, I thought that meditation was about deliberately changing one's conscious experience in order to achieve things such as deeper relaxation, a heightened sense of focus or ability to focus generally, elevated memory, and so on. What Sam taught me and what you'll soon learn as well is that while meditation does indeed hold all of those valuable benefits, the main value of a meditation practice, or perhaps the greater value of a meditation practice, is that it doesn't just allow one to change their conscious experience, but it actually can allow a human being to view consciousness itself, that is to understand what the process of consciousness is. And in doing so, to profoundly shift the way that one engages with the world and with oneself in all practices, all environments, and at all times, both in sleep and in waking states. And in that way, making meditation perhaps the most potent and important portal by which one can access novel ways of thinking and being and viewing one's life experience. We also discussed the so-called mind-body problem and issues of duality and free will. Concepts from philosophy and neuroscience that fortunately thanks to valuable experiments and deep thinking on the part of people like Dr. Sam Harris and others, is now leading people to understand really what free will is and isn't, where the locus of free will likely sits in the brain if it indeed resides in the brain at all. And what it means to be a conscious being, and how we can modify our conscious states in ways that allow us to be more functional. We also discussed perception, both visual perception, auditory perception, and especially interesting to me, and I think as well, hopefully to you, time perception, which we know is very elastic in the brain. The literal frame rate by which we process our conscious experience can expand and contract dramatically depending on our state of mind and how conscious we are about our state of mind. So we went deep into that topic as well. Today's discussion was indeed an intellectual deep dive into all the topics that I mentioned a few moments ago, but it also included many practical tools. In fact, I pushed Sam to share with us what his specific practices are and how we can all arrive at a clear and better understanding of a meditation practice that we can each and all apply so that we can derive these incredible benefits, not just the ones related to stress and focus and enhanced memory, but the ones that relate to our consciousness, that is to our deeper sense of self and to others. Several times during today's episode, I mentioned the waking up app. The waking up app was developed by Sam Harris, but I want to emphasize that my mention of the app is in no way a paid promotional. Rather, the waking up app is one that I've used for some period of time now and find very, very useful. I have family members that also use it. Other staff members here, the Huberman Lab podcast use it because we find it to be such a powerful tool. Sam has generously offered Huberman Lab podcast listeners a 30 day, completely free trial of the waking up app. If any of you want to try it, you can simply go to wakingup.com slash Huberman to get that 30 day free trial. During today's discussion, we didn't just talk about meditation, consciousness and free will. We also talked about psychedelics, both their therapeutic applications for the treatment of things like depression and PTSD, but also the use of psychedelics and we discussed Sam's experiences with psychedelics as they relate to expanding one's consciousness. I also asked Sam about his views and practices related to social media, prompted in no small part by his recent voluntary decision to close down his Twitter account. So we talked about his rationale for doing that, how he feels about doing that. I think you'll find that to be very interesting as well. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast. Our first sponsor is levels. Levels is a program that lets you see how different foods and behaviors affect your health by giving you real time feedback using a continuous glucose monitor. One of the most important factors in your immediate and long-term health are your blood sugar levels and not just your overall blood sugar levels, but your blood sugar levels throughout the day and response to different foods you eat, to fasting, if you're into fasting, to exercise, and so forth. I started using levels some time ago in order to figure out how different foods impact my blood sugar levels. Indeed, it does that very well. It allowed me to see how certain foods really spike my blood sugar in others, keep it more level, and in particular how foods that I eat after exercise can help raise my blood glucose just enough, but not so much that then I get a crash two or three hours later, which was what was happening before I started using levels. I've made certain adjustments to my diet. I can now eat post-exercise and still have plenty of energy throughout the day without any issue. Also, has helped me understand how different behaviors impact my blood glucose levels. If you're interested in learning more about levels and trying a continuous glucose monitor yourself, go to levels.linkslashuberman. Again, that's levels.link spelled L-I-N-K-slashuberman. Today's episode is also brought to us by Woop. Woop is a fitness wearable device that tracks your daily activity and sleep, but goes beyond activity and sleep tracking to provide real time feedback on how to adjust your training and sleep schedules in order to feel and perform better. Six months ago, I started working with Woop as a member of their Scientific Advisory Council as a way to help Woop advance their mission of unlocking human performance. And as a Woop user, I've experienced firsthand the health benefits of their technology. It's clear based on quality research that Woop can inform you how well you're sleeping, how to change your sleep habits, how to change your activity habits, even how to modify different aspects of your nutrition, exercise sleep and lifestyle in order to maximize your mental health physical health and performance. So whether or not you're an athlete or you're exercising simply for health, Woop can really help you understand how your body functions under different conditions and how to really program your schedule, nutrition and exercise and many other factors of your life in order to really optimize your health and performance, including your cognition. If you're interested in trying Woop, you can go to joinwoopspelledwhop.com slashuberman. That's joinwoop.com slashuberman today and get your first month free. Today's episode is also brought to us by 8 Sleep. 8 Sleep makes smart mattress covers with cooling, heating and sleep tracking capacity. I've talked many times before on this podcast about the fact that sleep is the fundamental layer of mental health, physical health and performance. Now one of the key things for getting a great night's sleep every single night is to optimize the temperature of your sleeping environment. Put simply in order to fall asleep and stay deeply asleep, your body temperature needs to drop by about 1-3 degrees. And waking up, on the other hand, involves a heating of your body by about 1-3 degrees. With 8 Sleep, you can tune the temperature of your mattress cover or mattress to be cooler or hotter depending on whether or not you tend to run too hot or too cold. And you can even vary it across the night so that you can access the best deep sleep early in the night, the so-called REM sleep rapid eye movement sleep that's more pronounced in the later half of the night and doing so really get your sleep optimized, not just in terms of duration, but in terms of quality and the overall architecture of your sleep. This has a profound influence on your alertness, focus, mood and many other important factors throughout the day. If you'd like to try 8 Sleep, you can go to 8Sleep.com slash Huberman to save up to $150 off their pod three cover. 8 Sleep currently ships to the USA, Canada, United Kingdom, select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's 8Sleep.com slash Huberman. Huberman Lab podcast is proud to announce that we are now partnered with momentous supplements because momentous supplements are of the very highest quality. They ship internationally and they have single ingredient formulations. If you'd like to access the supplements discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast, you can go to live momentous spelled OUS. So live momentous.com slash Huberman. And now for my discussion with Dr. Sam Harris. Dr. Sam Harris. We're just talking about this. You are indeed a doctor. I cannot save your life, but I might save your non-existence soul if we talk long enough. Well, neither of us are clinicians, but we are both brain explorers from the different perspectives, some overlapping. Yeah. And I'm really excited to have this conversation. I've been listening to your voice for many years, learning from you for many years. And I'd be remiss if I didn't say that my father, who's also a scientist, is an enormous fan of your waking up app. Nice. And has spent a lot of time over the last few years. He's in his late 70s. He's in almost 80s. So theoretical physicist. Walking to the park near his apartment and spending time meditating with the app or sometimes separate from the app, but using the same sorts of meditations in his head. Yeah. And he goes back and forth. And even, I shouldn't say even, but yes, even in his late 70s has reported that it is significantly shifted his awareness of self and his conscious experience of things happening in and around him. And he was somebody who I think already saw him self as a pretty aware person thinking about, you know, quantum mechanics and the rest. So a thank you from him indirectly. Right. A thank you from me now directly. And I really want to use that as a way to frame up what I think is one of the more interesting questions and not just science and philosophy and psychology, but all of life, which is. What is this thing that we call a self? Because I know we have not localized the region in the brain that can entirely account for our perception of self there are areas, of course, that regulate proprioception, you know, our awareness of where our limbs are in space, maybe even our awareness of where we are in physical space. There are such circuits as we both know. But when we talk about sense of self, I have to remember this kind of neuroscience 101 thing that we always say, you know, when you teach memory, you say, you wake up every morning. And you remember who you are, you know who you are. Most people do. Even if they lack memory systems in the brain for whatever reason, pretty much everyone seems to know who they are. What are your thoughts on what that whole thing is about? Do we come into the world feeling that way? I would appreciate answers from the perspective of any field. Yeah. And you know, the problem is we use the term self in so many different ways, right? And there's one sense of that term, which is the target of meditation and it's the target of deconstruction by the practice and by any, just any surrounding philosophy. You'll hear and you'll hear it from me that this self is an illusion, right? And that there's a psychological freedom that can be experienced on the other side of discovering it to be an illusion. And some people don't like that framing. Some people would insist that it's not so much an illusion, but it's a construct and it's not what it seems, right? But it's not that every use of the term self is illegitimate and there are certain types of selves that are not illusory. I mean, you know, I'm not saying that people are illusions. I'm not saying that you can't talk about yourself as distinct, as a whole person and you know, as psychological continuity with your past experience as being distinct from the person and psychological continuity of some other person, right? Obviously, we have to be able to conserve those data. It's not fundamentally mysterious that you're going to wake up tomorrow morning, still being psychologically continuous with your past and not my past, right? And, you know, if we swapped lives, you know, that would, you know, demand some explanation. So the illusoryness of the self doesn't cut against any of those obvious facts. So the sense of self that is illusory. And again, we might want to talk about self and other modes because there's just a lot of interest there psychologically and, you know, ultimately scientifically. The thing that doesn't exist, certainly doesn't exist as it seems and I would want to argue that it actually is just a proper illusion. Is this the sense that there is a subject interior to experience in addition to experience. So most people feel like they're having an experience of the world and they're having an experience of their bodies in the world. And in addition to that, they feel that they are a subject internal to the body and very likely in the head. Like most people feel like they're behind their face as a kind of locust of awareness and thought and intention and and that it's almost like they're your passenger inside your body. You know, most people don't feel identical to their bodies and they can imagine this is sort of the origin, the psychological origin, you know, the folk psychological origin of a sense of that there might be a soul that could survive the death of the body. I mean, most people are what my friend Paul Bloom calls common sense dualists, right? You you're used to the default expectation seems to be that whatever the relationship between the mind and the body. There's this there's some promise of separability there, right? That the and whenever you really push hard on the science side and say well, no, the mind is really just what the brain is doing that begins to feel more and more counterintuitive to people and there still seems some some residual mystery that you know at death. Maybe something is going to lift off the brain and go elsewhere, right? So there's a sense of dualism that many people have and obviously that that's supported by many religious beliefs. But this feeling it's a very peculiar starting point with the people feel that in it, you know, they don't feel identical to their experience, right? As a matter of experience, they feel like they're on the edge of experience. Somehow appropriating it from the side, you're kind of on the edge of the world and the world is out there. Your body is in some sense an object in the world, which you, you know, it's different from the world, you know, the boundary of your skin is still meaningful. You can sort of loosely control your body. I mean, you can't control, you can control your gross, you know, and subtle, you know, voluntary motor movements. But you can't, you're not controlling everything your body is doing. You're not controlling your heartbeat and your, you know, your hormonal secretions and all of that. And so there's a lot that's going on that is in the dark for you. And then you, you, you give someone an instruction to meditate, say, and you say, OK, let's, let's examine all of this from the first person side. Let's look for this thing you're calling I. And again, I is not identical to the body. People feel like their hands are out there and they're good when they're going to meditate, they're going to close their eyes very likely. And now they're going to pay attention to something, they're going to pay attention to the breath or sounds. And it's from the point of view of being a locus of attention that is now aiming attention strategically at an object like the breath. That there's this dualism that is set up and ultimately the ultimate promise of meditation. I mean, they're really two levels at which you could be interested in meditation. One is, you know, very straightforward and remedial and non paradoxical and very well subscribed. And it's, it's the usual set of claims about all the benefits you're going to get for meditation. Right. So you're going to lower your stress and you're going to increase your focus and you're going to, you know, stave off cortical thinning and others, all kinds of good things that science is saying meditation will give you. And none of that entails really drilling down on this paradoxical claim that the self is an illusion or anything else of that sort. But from my point of view, the real purpose of meditation and its real promise is not in this long list of benefits and I'm not discounting any of those, though, you know, the science for many of them is quite provisional. It's in this deeper claim that if you look for this thing, you're calling I, if you look for the sense that there's a thinker in addition to the, the, the mirror rising of the next thought, say, you won't find that thing. And, and you can, what's more, you cannot find it in a way that's conclusive and that matters, right? And it has a, there's a host of benefits that follow from that discovery, which are quite a bit deeper and more interesting than engaging meditation on the side of its benefits, you know, de-stressing, increasing focus and all the rest. I have a number of questions related to what you just said. And first of all, I agree that the evidence that meditation can improve focus, reduce stress, et cetera. It's there. It's not an enormous pile of evidence, but it's growing. And I think that it, especially for some of the shorter meditations, which I these days view more as perceptual exercises, you know, talked about this on the podcast before, but for those that haven't heard it before about, you know, perception, you can have extra reception, extending. Things beyond the confines of your skin, interoception, which is also includes the surfaces of the skin, but everything inward. And meditation through eyes closed, typically involving some sort of attentional spotlighting something we'll get into to more interoceptive versus extra receptive events, et cetera, including thoughts. And so I think of at a basic level meditation as a somewhat of a perceptual exercise, you can tell me where you disagree there, and I would expect and hope that you would. But I would like to just touch on this idea that you brought up, because it's such an interesting one of this idea that our bodies are containers and that we somehow view ourselves as passengers within those containers. That's certainly been my experience. And the image that I have is of, as you say that is of myself or of people out there that sit a few centimeters below the surface, or that sit entirely in their head. And of course, the brain and body are connected through the nervous system. I think sometimes a brain is used to replace the nervous system, and that can get us into trouble in terms of coming up with real, real directions and definitions. The point is that there is something special about the real estate in the head. I think for as much as my laboratory and many other scientists are really interested in brain body connections through the nervous system, another organ systems that the nervous system binds, that if you cut off all my limbs, I'm going to be different, but I'm fundamentally still Andrew. Whereas if we were to lesion a couple of square millimeters out of my parietal cortex, it's an open question as to whether or not I would still seem as much like Andrew to other people into myself even. And so there is something fundamentally different about the real estate in the cranial vault. Even remove both of my eyes, I'd still be Andrew, and those are two pieces of my central nervous system that are fundamental to my daily life, but I'd still be me. Whereas, and this doesn't, I think, just apply to memory systems. I mean, I think there are reasons of the frontal cortex that when destroyed have been shown to modify personality and self perception in dramatic ways. So it's sort of an obvious point once it's made, but I do think it's worth highlighting because there does seem to be something special about being in the head. The other thing is that sitting a few centimeters below the surface or riding in this container makes sense to me, except I wonder if you've ever experienced a shift as I have when something very extreme happens. I've used the negative example of, you know, all of a sudden you're in a fierce state. All of a sudden, it feels as if your entire body is you or is me, and now I need to get this thing, the whole container and me to some place of safety in whatever form. This is also true, I think, in ecstatic states. You can feel really when people say embodied, I wonder whether or not we normally oscillate below the surface of our body. When I say oscillate, I mean in neural terms, I mean, maybe our sensory experience is not truly at the bodily surface, but sits below the bodily surface, more at the level of organ systems and within our head. And then certain things that jolt us our autonomic nervous system into heightened states, bring us into states of, you know, bring us closer to the surface and therefore include all of us. Again, I don't want to take us down a mechanistic description of something that doesn't exist, but does any of that resonate in terms of how you are thinking about or describing the self. Yeah, yeah, there's a lot there. First on the point of the brain being, you know, the locus of what we are as minds. Yeah, I mean, there are people who will insist that sort of the whole nervous system has to be thought of as they will be talking about our emotional life and you know, the, the, the, the, the, the insular connection to the gut and just the sense of self extends beyond the brain, but I totally take your point that a brain transplant is a coherent idea. And you would expect to go with the brain rather than with the viscera and. So in that sense, we really are the, the old philosophical thought experiment of being a brain in a vat. I mean, we essentially are already, you know, the vat is our skull and we're, you know, virtually in that situation. The horrible movie, I'm sorry, I can't help but interrupt when I was a teenager, my sister and I used to go to the movies every once in a while, we trade off who could pick the movie and she took me to see once the movie boxing, Helena, the David Lynch film where he amputates the limbs of a woman who he's obsessed by and keeps her. It's a really horrible film and about 20 minutes into it, my sister just turned to me and said, I'm so sorry. The question there and was whether or not two siblings should actually persist in a movie like that, we decided to persist in the movies so that we could laugh about it later, but it was rather disturbing. I don't recommend the movie nor do I recommend seeing it with a sibling, but in that movie that the woman he takes her as a container and restricts her movement, right, quite sadistic and horrible thing really. David Lynch, interesting mind perhaps, but the idea was that was to question how much of the person persists in the absence of their ability to move, et cetera, could there be love, could there be these other affections, anyway, a rather extreme example, but one that I that still haunts me in his optimism, thinking about still. So just to follow that point, there's a lot about us that we don't have access to, unless we enact it physically, like, if I ask you, do you still know how to ride a bike, right, there's no place in your memory where you can, you can inspect, but you just sitting in your chair, that you've retained the knowledge of how to ride a bike, right, like it's a procedural memory is different from semantic or episodic memory. Do you know your address, yes, you can recall your address just sitting there, but if you had had a micro stroke that neatly dissected out your ability to ride a bike, and left everything else intact, you might think you could ride a bike, but suddenly you stand up next to one and you have no idea what to do with it, and that would be a discovery that would only happen if you are, you know, motorically engaged with that object. And I'm sure there's, you know, we could probably come up with a hundred things about us that really seem core to us, and we, and unnotice separable for our, you know, from our, you know, personhood, which seemed to only, you know, only get invoked when we're, you know, out there moving in the world, and, you know, we have the limbs, et cetera. And, but yeah, no, it's the seat of, of consciousness, I mean, the, the, the right framework to talk about all of this from my point of view is consciousness and its contents, right, so we have consciousness, the fact that there's something that is like to be us, right, the fact that the world and our internal experience is illuminated that it has a qualitative character. And then there's a question of what is that qualitative character, what is it, you know, what kinds of information do we have access to, what does it feel like to be us, how do, how to different states of arousal, change that so you talked about fear, yeah, I mean fear can change a lot of things, but. And, you know, various neurological deficits or, you know, you can add drugs to the mix, you add psychedelics that you radically transform the contents of consciousness, from my point of view, consciousness itself is simply the cognizance, the awareness that is the flood lights by which any of that stuff appears, right, so. Consciousness doesn't change, but its contents change and to come back to meditation for a second, many people think meditation is about changing the contents of consciousness, you, there's some, some contents you want to get rid of like anxiety, other contents you want to to encourage like calm and, you know, unconditional love or you some other, you know, classically pleasant pro social emotion. And that's all fine, that's all possible, but the real, you know, wisdom of, you know, the 2000 year old wisdom of meditation that really is the, you know, the chewy center of the to see pop is a recognition of what consciousness itself is always already like regardless of the contents and the changes in contents, and this is why I mean what we might talk about this, but this is why they're mutually compatible. Psychedelics and meditation from here somewhat orthogonal because psychedelics is all about making wholesale changes to the contents of consciousness and and there's a, you know, some wonderful consequences of doing that there can be some heroin and terrifying consequences of doing that, but generally speaking, I think, you know, used, used wisely they can be incredibly valuable and and the therapeutic potential there is enormous, but the crucial distinction here is that. There really is something to recognize about ordinary waking consciousness that the consciousness that's compatible with my driving a car to get here on time right there, you don't have to, you don't have to have the pyrotechnics of being on LSD to see the, the, the. Transcend the central illusion that I'm saying is the thing to be transcendent, which is the sense that there is a duality between subject and object in every moment of experience and to take it back to something you said about just all of our different modes in ordinary life. The interesting thing is I think people are constantly losing their sense of self and they're not aware of it and there there's a. Probably an analogy to the visual system here, which is. To a visual sacades, which perhaps you've spoken about at some point on your podcast, not enough so please yeah so so what happens with our you know every time we move our eyes is called a sacade and we do that about three times a second or so just normally. There is a you know the the reason a motor cortex that that affects that movement sends what's called an efferent copy of that motor movement. Which is which is used as information that propagates back to visual cortex that suppresses the data of vision while the eyes are moving because otherwise if you weren't doing that every time you moved your eyes it would seem like the visual scene itself was lurching around. And people can experience this for themselves if they just you know touch one of their eyeballs on the side you know not all that hard and kind of jiggle it you know and they can roll it around you can jiggle it from side to side you can see that a. A movement of the eyeball that's not governed by your ocular motor system delivers a jiggling of the world because it's not your brain is not anticipating it in the same way and it's not you're not producing that that same. You know predictive copy of the movement it's a little bit like. You know some action sports filmers on our staff here that the gimbal you know that holds a an iPhone like you see the kids with a sort of boards or skateboards or something they're going to hold a phone while moving around or the people who are the vloggers they wouldn't even still use that for. Moving around into its image stabilization essentially that keeps the camera steady and these are more than cameras of course the for those listening point at my eyes but they do far more than just what a camera would do but yeah this internal system of image stabilization yeah I can see perhaps where you're going with this that that. It allows us to remain in a self referencing scheme as opposed to sort of paying attention to just how confusing it is to track the visual world at some level well actually where I'm going is it so people are having this suppression of vision three times a second on average and they're not experiencing it right so like you're like you're literally like you're you're effectively going blind and you're not noticing it and. This is very fast yes is very fast now there's an analogous suppression I would say of the sense of self that occurs every time attention gets absorbed significantly in its object right so like we even have this concept of you losing yourself in your work or you know you losing your classic flow experiences have this quality where there's. That and this tends to be why they're so rewarding where there's just if you're in in some you athletic activity or you know an aesthetic one or you could be having sex or you could be whatever it is some peak experience its its peakness usually entails there being some brief period where there was no distance between you and the experience right there for that moment you were no longer looking over your own shoulder or anticipating the next moment or trying to get somewhere where you weren't or you know micromanaging errors or you like this you know this not there's just the flow of unity with whatever the you know whatever the experience is you know a surface. On the way of right and we love those experiences and then. We are continually abstracted away from them by our thinking about them will think oh my god that was so good or how do I get back to that or you're looking at a sunset is the most beautiful sunset you've ever seen. You're continually interrupting the experience of merely seeing it with a commentary about how amazing this is and I wonder what are real estate prices here is a possible actually move here and you your mind is just continually narrating conversation you're having with yourself however paradoxically I mean you're telling yourself thing yourself things that you already know. So as though there were two of you rather often right like you know you're just you know I'm looking for you know which is the water and so there it is right but like I'm the one seen it who am I saying oh there it is too is there someone else who needs to be informed about the thing I already saw right so it's it's there's something about our internal dialogue that is paradoxical. Any neurologic condition. Close electomy or anything like that where somehow people feel more unified with the cell phone a continual basis the observer and the actor within whether it stayed more more as a complete sentence is there any known neurological syndrome they sound like a bad thing but could be good thing whereby people feel that the actor and the observer within them are uniform. And the other way within them are unified continually there's not a pathological one some of them the work on the default mode networks suggests that that's at least part of the story right so the default mode network. Which has been talked about a lot of late because it has come up both in the in the meditation literature and in the psychedelic literature but it's original discovery was that you know and the reason why it was called the default mode was that in virtually every. Neuroimaging experiment ever run they found that between tasks when the brain was just in his default state these these midline structures would would increase their activity and then they would then they would reliably diminish whenever the person in the scanner was was on task and usually that meant some kind of outward looking. You know visual discrimination task I mean but it could be could be you know it could be visual it could be semantic it could be but there tends to be their eyes are open and their paying attention to something that's being broadcast to them through you know monitor goggles or you know they're looking at a mirror that showing them a computer monitor. But the so the general insight was there these midline structures in the brain that seem to be increasing their activity when the brain is just kind of idling between task waiting for something to happen and then further experiments found tasks that actually up regulated. Activity there beyond baseline and those tasks seem to be self referential so that when you ask people you know you give them a list of words and you say would do these any of these apply to you right you know and so people are or you ask people to think about. You know actually what one experiment I did when you know when you're challenging people's beliefs when you're challenging beliefs that have more of a personal significance like political or religious beliefs you get an up regulation in these regions as opposed to just generic beliefs about you know you're in Los Angeles this is a table you know there's something to which you know people are not you know holding fast as a matter of identity. So anyway both meditation and psychedelics seem to suppress activity in these in these regions which we know are associated with both self talk mind wandering and explicit acts of self representation right so could we say that they are somewhat autobiographical because they access memory systems and in the way you're describing them and in the way that a colleague of mine who's been a guest on this podcast I don't know if you've interacted with him before but I think you'd very much enjoy whatever interaction you do would have his David Spiegel he's our associate chair of psychiatry he and his father actually his father then he founded hypnosis as a valid clinical practice in psychiatry and hypnosis which is obviously a heightened sense of attention with the relaxation is known to dramatically suppress the default mode network he talks about this a lot and I I always wonder as we take down activity within the deep. So I think that's not the problem activity within the default mode network what surfaces it in its place and is what surfaces in its place does that somehow reflect that the two are normally in a push pull is that's not necessarily the case right when I fall asleep I can hallucinate but that doesn't mean that during the day my the fact that I'm looking at objects is is what's preventing me from hallucinating close my eyes I can get imagery but you know there's this kind of a different illusion the illusion of antagonistic and I don't want to take us off course but the default mode network seems to want to be there what I'm quote it seems to be fighting for our attention unless we give ourselves a visual targeted an auditory target or some salient experience of some kind it sounds like and then if I'm surprised to hear that the use is activity in the default mode network at some level because meditation to me oftentimes involves paying attention to some sort of perceptual target yeah maybe you could eventually explain as to how it might do that or why it might and I don't think it's the whole story because obviously outward going attention is not even if you're having the kind of egoic saccade that I'm talking about where you're like you're actually not clearly aware of yourself you're not clearly defining yourself as separate from experience for the moment of paying attention you so you are sort of losing yourself in your work that's not the same thing as having the clear meditative inside of selflessness that I'm claiming is the goal of meditation but there is a you know to wind back to the original point I was making and the reason why I drew the the analogy to visual saccades I do think there's a continuous interruption in our sense of self that goes on recognized and but but the conscious acquisition of of the understanding that the self is an illusion is a different experience and it's because you're then you're then focusing on this absence actually there's another analogy to the visual system that applies here which is to the optic blind spot I mean it's like so which is a good analogy for me because it cuts through a bunch of false assumption as to where we kind of where that you would look for this or how this relates to ordinary experience so as many people know that we have you know in both eyes we have what's called the blind spot which is a consequence of the optic nerve transiting through the retina I mean unlike cephalopods I think I think cephalopods have their optic nerve as you know a a an omniscient being would have engineered it connecting the retina from the back and therefore there is no blind area of blindness associated with its transit back through the retino but our receptors on the outside exactly humans whatever reason put photos well I was I wasn't consoled the design phase something put a photoreceptors combination of things but photo receptors in the back and so you actually have to send the information through through the pixel center of the of the eye yeah cephalopods and just awful of basically invertebrates right the design is more at its face logical mammals very illogical design at least as far as our judgments yeah but it gives me good analogy so I'll take it I'd like to take a brief break and acknowledge our sponsor athletic greens athletic greens is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink that also contains digestive enzymes and adaptogens I started taking athletic greens way back in 2012 so that's 10 years now of taking athletic greens every single day so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring this podcast reason I started taking athletic greens and the reason I still take athletic greens is that it covers all of my foundational nutritional needs so whether or not I'm eating well or enough or not I'm sure that I'm covering all of my needs for vitamins minerals probiotics adaptogens to combat stress and the digestive enzymes really help my digestion I just feel much better when I'm drinking athletic greens if you'd like to try athletic greens you can go to at lettagreens.com slash huberman and for the month of January they have a special offer with a little give you 10 free travel packs plus a year supply of vitamin D3 K2 vitamin D3 and K2 are vital for immune function metabolic function hormone health but also calcium regulation and heart health again that's athletic greens dot com slash huberman to claim their special offer in the month of January of 10 free travel packs plus a year supply of vitamin D3 K2. So in any case we have this blind spot which you can I think most people learn this in school although my daughters had not been taught this in school I just showed them this for the first time like a month ago which and they were briefly fascinated and then want to return to their screen time but anyway you can take a piece of paper and you make you know two marks on it and then you cover one eye and you fixate on on one mark. And you can look this up online if you need details about how to do this and you while staring at one fixation point you move the paper back and forth and you can get it to a place where the other mark disappears and that and if and you know you can run this experiment long enough to satisfy yourself that there is in fact a blind spot in your visual field which you with one eye closed you don't normally notice the reason why you have to cover cover one eyes because each eye compensates for the blind spot of the other so but which is to say that if you close one eye and survey the visual scene something really is missing whatever you're looking at if you're looking at the crowd of people somebody is missing ahead and you're not noticing it and it's not it's not easy to notice because you know the brain doesn't tend to vividly represent the absence of information I mean it's just like this is part of the game that's not being rendered is not it's not showing up as a break in your in the visual field is just not there and you're I mean the people have argued that there's a kind of filling in phenomenon that happens but I think that can be you know misunderstood or exaggerated but the eye movements themselves you describe before I think I should say that the the the saccade analogy of about transiently and repetitively erasing the self works perfectly here because indeed microsecodes smaller saccade curl the time also prevent our eyes from fixating it one location long enough to observe our blind spot even if one eyes close right right so if we the experiments done with paralytics to essentially lock eyes in one location basically things just start disappearing yeah it just it's all of the thing that we start losing but actually we start going blind right and those experiments have been done and on humans I hear they're quite terrifying yeah yeah yeah you can do that for yourself to just you know begins to just all of the melt away and an angle and a warm glow no psychedelics required but the interesting point there is that when you ask yourself okay so this because of as a consequence of the eyes anatomy there's this this thing you can see that is absent from your experience but the question is where is that in relationship to the rest of you to your mind is that deep within or is that in some sense right on the surface of experience and there's this expectation that people have again I think conflating meditation with with a search for changes in the contents of consciousness they're looking for you know much more subtle things to to notice about the mind or much you know vaster things to notice psychedelics sets up this this expectation that you do you know a massive dose of mushrooms or LSD and everything changes I mean you just get this full you know the Pacific vision and you know you get you know not only visual changes but you know emotional changes and you get synesthesia where like you're just you have much more mind in in in so many ways so they begin you having these experiences or reading the mystical literature you begin to think okay well then freedom is is really elsewhere or is it is really it's deep within it's like it's not it's not coincident with the ordinary awareness that can can let can see this coffee cup clearly and that can just transition attention to you know read in an email you know with with the full sobriety of just you know ordinary waking consciousness. But the truth is this insight into selflessness is inside into the non duality of subject and object is as close to ordinary consciousness as this insight into the optic blind spot like what where do you have to go to have this inside into the blind spot no you just have to go anywhere you just have to set up the the experiment correctly such that you know you you can see the data but the data is right on the surface it's like it's it's almost too close to you to notice I mean if it's at all hard to notice it's because it's so close rather than it's you know deep within or far away and there are other analogies like I don't remember those minds I pieces of artwork that was the random dot stereo grounds where you have an image that pops out I always find it very difficult to see those because I have a very dominant eye you know but some people can't see those these are these images that used to be at the kind of like touristy shops of a but people say oh there it is the whale I don't see it you know kids that swim a lot when they're younger and they're tend to breathe just to one side I don't know if this was you this is definitely tend to will keep one eye close you set up a pretty strong pretty strong ocular dominance at bison your vision to one or the other eye early in life whether you're learning how to be a bow hunter or you're learning how to throw darts or shoot billions or anything involves selectively viewing the world through one eye for even a couple of hours can set up a permanent asymmetry in the waiting of visual flow of in for flow of visual information from the eye to the brain it's reversible but only through the reverse gymnastics of covering up the other eye actually I had to be reverse patched for a while because I was seeing double because I lost binocular vision I don't stand a chance in hell of seeing an image pop out of random hysteria which is kind of ironic because I did my PhD on binocular circuitry right but nonetheless if people can see these or if they can't what I think they provide a really terrific example of what you're talking about it as a larger theme which is that perceptually you see a bunch of dots and then all of a sudden what you thought wasn't there suddenly there but can just disappear again or there are certain visual illusions if we were to include others that once you see them you cannot unsee them right so there's the faces faces you know figure ground type stuff or it's a bit by stable percepts yeah by stable percepts and then there's sort of ocular competition you show two different images to the eyes that each of the two eyes it is near impossible for people to perceive them both simultaneously yeah so it's a little bit of what you're describing I mean these seem to be fundamental features about the way the neural circuits are organized that they don't want to stably you don't they don't want to stay fixated on any one thing for very long to do so either takes training intense interest fear intense excitement and I say intense I guess I come back to this idea that the autonomic nervous system is somehow governing our ability to spotlight at any one location for very long does that is that a useful framework or is that going to take us down a different place it's sort of a different path for this I mean for the only point I was making is that the seemingly paradoxical claim that something can be right on the surface and yet hard to see right so like the their things that are because it's and again this this this seems to justify the expectation held by I think you know the vast majority of people who get interested in these you know spiritual things relax for a better word that the truth must somehow be deep within right like that there's really like a there's some distance between where you're between the one who is looking and the thing that has to be found right and you have to go through this this long evolution of changes I mean many metaphors is that this up is like you're at the base of a mountain and you have to climb to the top and so you have to find the path however secure secure does to get you there but there really is a distance between where you're between your starting point and the goal and what I'm arguing at you know and this is a kind of a non dual to use a term of jargon is a non dual approach to meditation as opposed to a dualistic one that there really is a a the the path and the goal are are are coincident right that there's a there that you have to unravel the logic by which you would seek something that's outside of you the you know the present moments experience you know I he not available really not available to you now because so many things worth having so many so many skills worth acquiring really are not available to you now it's like it's like you know if you want to be a pianist if you want to speak Chinese or like like the you there's something you don't know and then you want to learn that thing and there's a whole process right and you might not be capable of doing it right you might and and real mastery is far away right if you if you've never hit a golf ball and you want to hit a golf ball 300 yards straight right you know I can pretty much guarantee you're not going to do that initially and you're not going to do it you know on day two and you're not going to do it reliably for the longest time and there's real training you know in front of you to to be able to do that reliably an insight into and really the core insight I mean the the insight that is either the core of you know the Buddha's teaching to take one one historical example of this really is available now and it is not I mean you know granted it can be very hard one for people I mean I probably spent a year on silent retreat in in you know one week to three month increments before I sort of got the point I'm making now right so like I you know it's quite I mean literally and this is these are you know is a retreat where he's been you know 12 to 18 hours a day just meditating trying to to you know unpack the kinds of claims I'm you know making now so there is it's possible to rigorously overlook this is possible to stand in front of the mind's eye image and stare in a way that is guaranteed not to give you pop out right and to be to be that you know staring in that way so it's possible to be misled and so what I'm what I'm trying to argue here is that there's a fair amount of leverage you can get with with better information which can kind of cut the time course of you are searching for this thing and and kind of cancel your false expectations about just where this is in relation to your ordinary waking consciousness and it's possible to get bad information and to have a bunch of experiences you know you go you go and do an I wasca trip and you have it's incredibly valuable and is valuable for all the ways in which it changed the contents of your consciousness in you know startling ways and you had insights into your past and into your relationships and into why you're not as loving as you might be and there's lots to think about and you're like well great that's all something that you know you can talk about but there is it's it truly is orthogonal I mean if it makes a point of contact to what I'm talking about it's really it's just at one point you know and it's at the point where this sense of of subject object division in consciousness is illusory and vulnerable to investigation and if you investigate it that's sort of the right plane of focus you know you pick the analogy you want from you know whether it's you know setting up the the the optic blind spot experiment in just the right way so that you can see that you know it's actually not the data is not there or I mean the by stable percept is great because you know when you see one of these images like the vase face diagram or you know the Dalmatian you know that it looks like just a mess of dots and then you see the image of a Dalmatian dog pop out once you see it you really can't unsee it I mean well like once you have the requisite conceptual you know anchor to it then every time you look you're going to find it again and eventually becomes effortless and that's what ultimately meditation is I mean this kind of meditation you you ultimately learn to recognize that there's no separation from you between you and your experience right there's not the experience on the one hand and the self on the other there's just experience right there's just seen hearing smell and tasting touching thinking feeling you know proprioception add add whatever channels of information you want to that but there's just the there's just the totality of the energy of consciousness and its contents and there's no it's not that you're on the river bank and this is this is how it can seem in the beginning even when you're practicing meditation fairly diligently can seem like you're on the river bank watching the contents of consciousness flow by and then and meditation is the act of doing that more and more dispassionately so you're no longer grabbing at the pleasant or pushing the unpleasant away you're just kind of relaxing and in the most non-judgmental frame of mind just witnessing the flow right but if you're doing that do listically you feel like the meditator you feel like the subject aiming attention and so now you're on the river bank watching everything go go pass but the truth is you are the river right experience itself is there is just experience itself you're not you're not on the edge of experience and everything you can notice is part of the flow right and there's no point from which to abstract yourself away from the flow to stand outside it and to say okay this is this is my life this is my experience this is my body yes you can do that I mean those are all just thoughts but that's more of the flow right and so there is a there's a process by which you would eventually eventually recognize that there's no distance between you and your experience and again you can you can wait for those moments in life where experience gets so good or so terrifying you know it's just so salient right you're a make the lives driving so hard I mean so you're in you know war and you can't think about anything because the you know the enemy is shooting at you and this is the most thrilling video game you've ever played in your life and your life is on the line or your your you know at the peak of of some you know athletic event where there's just you don't know how you're doing the things you're doing but it's all happening automatically right but you know those are those are you know one one hundred of one percent of one's life you know and you know what I'm calling meditation is a way of simply understanding the mechanics of attention whereby you are denying yourself that unity of experience so much at the time and recognizing that that's you know it's it's based on a a misperception of of the way consciousness always already is well if there wasn't an incentive to learn how to meditate properly that was one and I've been meditating for a fair amount since I was in my teens but more along the lines of just paying attention to breath and you know recognize thought sort of observer open observer type meditation or focused attention I would suppose more of the focus attention type we'll get into these a little bit later but I have a number of questions related to what you just said sure I love the idea that this thing that we would all do well to understand to observe consciousness itself as opposed to try and alter the contents of consciousness may sit much closer to us than one might think that it and that because it sits so close to us that that might be one of the reasons why we miss it I go right to a visual system example of me if you don't you're wearing corrective lenses and there's a spec on your lens you know typically you're looking out through the lens and so you wouldn't observe that spec any number of different analogies could work here the the fact that there are states however few positive and negative X to C8 extreme X to C and extreme fear being the two I think most obvious ones that seems like we agree on that allows to capture the sense of completeness of self or the unity of the observer and the actor the fact that those are are seldom for the non trained for the non meditator suggests to me two things I think one perhaps worth exploring more than the other but one is that what's really being revealed in the states where we can feel the unity of the observer and the actor is understanding something fundamental about the algorithm that not the online algorithm but the algorithm that is our nervous system just as a mentioned cephalopods I mean mantis shrimp sea enormous array of color hues that we don't right there map their maps and representations of the world are fundamentally different pit viper see in the infrared we restricted to some what of a limited range within the color spectrum but still more vast than that of dogs or cats OK so understanding that for seeing what a pit viper can see for moments would be informative perhaps sensing heat emissions as a human might be invasive that maybe that's why we don't do it so the question is to just make it straight forward is why would the system be designed this way again neither of us were consulted the design phase but that brings me to perhaps the more trackable question was which is about development i'm a great believer that the neural circuits that encouraged healthy parent child relations were unhealthy parent child relations is the case maybe and childhood stem from the initial demands of internal versus external states which is exactly that we're talking about which is that a young child feels anxious because it needs a diaper change doesn't really know it needs a diaper change or it's cold where it's uncomfortable or it's hungry where it's overly full and so it vocalizes and then some external source comes to us and relieves that hopefully right and so the fundamental rule that we first learn is not that we have a cell for that things fall down not up but is that when uncomfortable external eyes that discomfort and it will be relieved by an outside player and then of course there's a repurposing of that circuitry for adult romantic attachments I don't think anyone doubts that and that can explain a lot indeed about attachment and so forth so something about our developmental wiring and the algorithms that these neural circuits run tend to bias most people the non practice meditators to live a somewhat functional life at least without this awareness of actor and observer and so what you're really talking about is a deliberate intervention to understand and resolve that gap in the algorithm is that do I have that right I'm more or less restating way said in a way that I'm hopefully will serve as a jumping off point is to you know why questions are always very dangerous in biology or any you know and what's that or in relationship right exactly although I think it all does really working back to this early developmental wiring which of course is modifiable that's the that's a beauty of the nervous system is it's the one organ that seems to be able to change itself at least to some degree. So what are your thoughts about the organization of the circuitry to essentially under normal conditions to not reveal it's what seems to be one of its more important and profound and for you know dare I say enlightening features features right it's almost as if we are potentially like mantis shrimp we can see so many more colors than we actually see and yet we don't we we sort of up most people opt not to and I would argue that one of the great strengths of the waking up app for instance that it essentially walks you through the process of being able to arrive at these things without having to go to one year or three year long solid meditation retreats yeah so if you just elaborate from home before we move on about you know what are your thoughts about how the circuitry is arranged by default versus that the and what that means for there to be an intervention that we have to intervene in the self in order to reveal the self. Well so the two big questions there what one about evolution one about development so with respect to evolution I mean it's important to recognize that evolution doesn't see our deepest concerns about human flourishing and human well being you know it's all about the self it's just you know you we are set up to spawn and to survive long enough to to help our progeny spawn if we can do that and that that's it right and so anything that was good for that including you know tribalism and xenophobia and you know all kinds of hardware and software flaws that are that are reveal themselves be flaws in the present time when we're trying to build a viable global civilization but you know they they are not just funded to the advantage of our ancestors somehow or they just there's there's things about is that we're simply not selected for they just kind of came along for the right you know what Stephen Jake will call a new model so we are not set up by evolution to be as happy as we possibly can be and certain and to do almost anything that interests us well I mean we're not set up by evolution to be mathematicians or musicians or to create a new way of the evolution that are healthy I mean to evolution can see none of this and we're doing these things based on cognitive and emotional hardware that we are leveraging in new directions right and we have we are primates and we are you know we're communicating with you know small mouth noises and we're language using primates and all of that is clearly evolved in the amazing things including science you know however improbably we're you were actually able to to you know almost entirely with language understand reality that at a scale that exceeds us in both directions I mean the very the very vast and the very small and you know also very old we have you know visions of the far future we can figure out you know where and you know an asteroid is going to cross Earth's orbit a thousand years from now if we just do the math and it's amazing that we can do all of those things but evolution is blind to all of that right and so we have in terms of what we care about and certainly in terms of what we what's going to ensure our survival as a species we have flown the perch that was created for us by evolution I mean we're just not it's not just the primate things and so so it is with learning how to regulate our emotions and and you know punch through to a self concept or beyond a self concept that is more normative psychologically that allows us to you know not be terrorized by our apish genes as fully as we seem to be even in the presence of more and more destructive technology that I mean like you know we're still practically chimpanzees armed with nuclear weapons right I mean that is you know increasingly dysfunctional and very soon we're going to be in the presence of minds or apparent minds that we have built you know that are as intelligent as we are or and very quickly you know probably 15 minutes after that far more intelligent than we are and so what we do with all of that is again something that we have to figure out based on the minds we have the minds we can build the minds we can change you know we can we can metal with our own genomes now and and that will produce its own consequences you know in ourselves and in future generations if we metal with the germline and again all of that is just you know evolution is just the womb we came out of but it's not it didn't anticipate any of that right so so the you know mother nature has simply not had our best interests at heart right and it's we might die off and and from the point of view of the world from the point of view of mother nature that's that's fine because 99% of every species dies off you know so there's that but when you're talking about when you're talking about the individual developmentally so you know we all come into this world again as a as a fairly hairless primate that needs a tremendous amount of care by others and the logic of that is that you know the reason why we're not a gazelle that can run you know 45 minutes later and then basically do all the gazelle things perfectly soon thereafter the reason why we have you know we have this this time of immaturity and that becomes has become functional for us is that it's just we were far more flexible and we can learn based on the needs of of an environment to do you know so much more than a gazelle can and languages part of that and you know in the last 10,000 years or so culture increasingly has been more and more part of that and there's a probably a layer at which we can possibly talk about cultural evolution you know and culture evolution interacting with biological evolution to to changes when you're talking about the development of an individual each of us comes into this world I think not recognizing ourselves in any in any sense that you would make sense to to reify I mean it's not that there's nothing there I mean there could be some kind of proto self differentiation but I think it's it takes a it takes a long while and there is probably very likely a coincidence between really recognizing recognizing others we recognize others first and we're in certainly in relationship immediately and we orient the human faces and we know even detect other humans as good and bad moral actors very early I mean certainly long before we recognize ourselves in a mirror we the experiments run again this is Paul Bloom and colleagues experiments run on kind of the moral hardware and software of developing toddlers but I think at this point they push it down all it like six months of of age where you'll get these infants staring at kind of a puppet show and they'll they'll show a and a greater interest in you know in a classically good actors versus bad actors you cooperators versus you know defectors in various you know puppet show games so there's it's not that we have no mind and no proto awareness of others and self but what eventually happens certainly as we become at all fast so with with languages is that we become aware that that not only are we in relationship to others but we are an object in the world for them right so that like we have enough people pointing at us in our cribs right and impinging upon our experience right you you you're being physically moved and prodded and touched and consoled or not consoled and just imagine what all of these you're on the receiving end of 10,000 interventions right and you're completely helpless for the longest time and all of that attention you have all of these people coming up you know to the crib and making faces at you cheering you know and yeah and it's all pointed at you right so there's a you know there's a classic magical narcissism that gets constructed there if you if you take the psychological literature you know at least a certain strand of it seriously and I think it's largely apt to to think of a child at that age as a kind a kind of there's a kind of narcissistic structure there where it's it's it's all kind of going inward and at a certain point you realize okay I'm I'm the center of all of this right like it's not just it's not just a movie that you're you're you know what you're you're completely absorbed in and you've lost your sense of self I mean this is to talk about to get another example of what it's like as a grown up to lose our sense of self and one of the things I think we find so fascinating by about television and and film is that when we get totally absorbed in it we're in this very unusual circumstance where we're you know our brain is basically reading it as we're in this in the classic social circumstance we're presented with with you know the the facial displays of other people in fact with you know we can get some of the sometimes these people are 10 feet tall right or their faces are 10 feet tall you really close up in a movie theater so it's like the super stimulus in terms of evolution and they could make it they could be making direct eye contact with the camera right so you have this gigantic face staring at you and yet you're totally unimplicated socially you can't be seen and you and something about you know you can't be seen and so you're completely you completely lose self consciousness and yet you're you're able to examine with completely free attention again because you're fully vaccinated. The facial minutia and the mimetic facial play of people from at a very close range I mean you're seeing people close I mean you have to be you know physically just you know about to kiss your your your spouse like that's what a close up is in a film right like that you never get that close to people right and yet hear you're in a situation where you're unobserved and you know that and so I mean this is a bit of a tangent but the it's the other side of what's happening developmentally for a kid when you're in a movie theater watching a movie you are truly invisible and yet you're right there seeing you know the however harrowing the human drama is you're seeing a play out and you're seeing it you're seeing it up and it is a it is an principally social encounter that your genes are ready for but they're not ready for you to be invisible right and so that's what's so magical about it but what happens developmentally for a kid is that you're not invisible you are an object that is constantly being being overrun the boundaries of your you know your your sensory engagement with the world are constantly being impinged upon by others and at a certain point you recognize okay I'm at the center of this and the way this gets enshrined as a self I think is probably coincident with our learning the language game we learn to play with others where we're talking to others people are talking to us and at a certain point we're talking to ourselves even when the other people leave the room right so and you can hear if you ever have been with a toddler when they're when they're when they're when they're externalizing their self talk you know you hear them talking to themselves are playing and they're and they're they're having a conversation they were talking to you the parent but then you left the room and they're still talking you come back in and they're still they're still talking right and what happens to us strangely and this comes back to the logic of evolution we never stop because evolution never thought to build us an off switch for this right I mean the language is so useful and it gets tuned up so strongly for us and there was never a reason to shut it off right there's never reason to give you this ability to say I wouldn't be nice have four hours of quiet now like no self talk and so for most of us I mean I think there are people who for whatever neurological reason or you know it is a critic reason undoubtedly there's been a neurological reason for it don't have any self talk but for the for most of us we are covertly talking basically all the time and and there's an imagistic component of this for many people you're you're visualizing things as well but there's just a lot of ton of white noise in the mind that feels a certain way and you know what I what you discover in meditation ultimately is that the self is what it feels like to be thinking without knowing that you're thinking right a thought arises and you're not unexpected and seems to just become you right so like you and I are talking now and you know that you're you know people are listening to us they're struggling to follow the train of this conversation because it is competing with the conversation is happening in their heads right so I'll be saying something and a person listening will say well what does that mean or like oh boy I mean he just contradicted the voice in your head that is also vying for your attention much of the time and so it's you know the first discovery people make in meditation is that it's just so hard to pay attention to anything the breath or mantra or the sound whatever it is because you're thinking every you're thinking about the thing you need to do in an hour and oh it's so good that I downloaded this app I'm like this is really good this is going to be good for me but you're but you're that that chatter isn't showing up you're not far back enough in the kind of the the theater of consciousness so as to see it emerge it is just sneaking up behind you and it feels like me again it feels like when someone is thinking the thought what the hell does that mean right they're not seeing it as an emerging object in consciousness it just feels like me it just feel that that's it is the the you know subjectively it's like the mind contracts around this appearance in consciousness and it really is just it is just as you know it's just a sound with the voice of the mind if you actually can inspect it it is it is deeply inscrutable that we ever feel identified with our thoughts I mean how is it that that we could be a thought these thoughts I thought just arises and passes away and when you inspect it when you go to inspect it it's it you know it unravels it's it's it's it's it's it's the least substantial possible thing and it and it could but yet it could be a thought of self-hatred you know it could be a thought that that unrecognized totally defines your your mood you know it's like I mean just again this all can seem kind of abstract but well no but I but I think it it's extremely concrete from the perspective of the neural circuits that we'll return to in maybe in a few minutes I'd like to take a brief break and thank our sponsor inside tracker inside tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long term health can only be analyzed from a quality blood test the problem with a lot of blood and DNA tests out there however is that you get data back about metabolic factors lipids and hormones and so forth but you don't know what to do with those data inside tracker solves that problem and makes it very easy for you to understand what sorts of nutritional behavioral maybe even supplementation based interventions you might want to take on in order to adjust the numbers of those metabolic factors hormones lipids and other things that impact your immediate and long term health to bring those numbers into the ranges that are appropriate and indeed optimal for you if you'd like to try inside tracker you can visit inside tracker dot com slash huberman and get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans that's inside tracker dot com slash huberman to get 20% off if you could elaborate a bit on this notion of internal chatter and external stimuli and the bridge between them because that's I think that for some people that might be intuitive I think for others it's not so obvious that language is ongoing right in the backdrop yeah because sometimes I think some people are more tuned into that language for some people it's it's louder volume for some people it's more structured I have a colleague at Stanford who's been on this podcast called Diceroth is like one of the three of me like bioengineers is also psychiatrist and he has a med he doesn't call it a meditative practice he has a practice where each evening after five kids are down sleep you know yeah they're older now but and in the quiet of the the late hours of the night early morning he sits and forces himself to think in complete sentences with punctuation for an hour this is the way that he has taught himself to structure his thinking right because of the very fact that you're describing which is that ordinarily there is an underlying structure to what's internal but it's disrupted by external events and it's and these are it typically it's not coherent enough to really make meaning from so it's almost like somebody sitting down to write in complete sentences but for himself to do it in his head but for many people including myself that's a that's a foreign experience and we only experience structure through our interactions with the world and other people that if I were I've taken the time to try and explore ideas with eyes closed and you know and I've been able to do that there are certain pharmacologic states that we could talk about that facilitate that and know those are not amphetamines those do exactly the opposite by the way but I think people exist in varying degrees of structured and unstructured internal dialogue and in very in varying depths of recognition of that internal dialogue and so the question I suppose is is just the recognition that there's a dialogue ongoing internally is that itself valuable? Yeah and that also can take some time so so I mean so here's a claim I would make that some people might find surprising but I think this is an objectively true claim about the subjectivity of most people which is that unless you you know have a fair amount of training let's you just happen to be some kind of savant in this area which you know most of my definition aren't or you have a remarkable amount of training in what's called concentration practice in meditation I believe this is a true claim that if we just put a stopwatch on this table and people could just watch you know the 30 seconds elaps and I set all of our listeners or your viewers the task for the next 30 seconds just pay attention to anything your breath you know or you know this the side of your hand or the side of the clock or any object without getting lost in thought without getting momentarily distracted by this conversation you're having with yourself this couple things would happen one is no one would be able to do it right and not just this is not just a superficial inability I mean if your life's dependent on it you wouldn't be able to do it I mean if the fate of civilization dependent on it none of none of our listeners would be able to do this and yet some percentage of them are are so distracted by thought that they would think that they will actually try this experiment and think they succeeded right and for these people what what happens is you put them on a meditation retreat and you have them spend 12 hours a day in silence doing nothing but this right so the practice is just pay attention to the breath when they're sitting and then eventually you know you incorporate everything sounds and other sensations and then you interleave that with walking meditation whether paying attention just to the sensations of lifting and moving and placing their feet and then you know once the practice is going you you incorporate sounds and sites and everything but so you can pay attention everything but the goal is for every moment you are going to cultivate this faculty of mine which increasingly is known as mindfulness right so and mindfulness is nothing other than this very careful attention to the contents of consciousness but the crucial pieces it is not a moment of being lost in thought right you're not you you're not blocking thoughts thoughts themselves can arise but in those moments of being truly mindful you're noticing thoughts as thoughts whether they're whether it's language in the mind or images you're noticing those two as spontaneous appearances in consciousness so if most people you know certainly anyone who thinks they can pay attention to you know they can do the experiment successfully that I just suggested pay attention to something for 30 seconds without being lost in thought you put those people on a meditation retreat what they're going to experience is you know on the first day they're going to feel like oh yeah I was you know I was with the breath or I was walking you know I was with the sensations of walking and I'd be there for like five minutes you know solid and then I would get lost in thought then I come back and you know five more minutes it'd be lost in thought I think it back but as the days progressed you know even you know ten days in to a silent meditation retreat they're going to experience more and more distraction they're going to it's going to seem like okay wait a minute now I can't pay attention to anything for more than five seconds right that is progress right because because what they're discovering is just how distractable they are right and you know for some people that will be immediately obvious for some people it'll actually take a lot of practice to realize just how distracted there what you just said which was that at some point we can start noticing our thoughts I can notice my thoughts but what you're talking about is as a goal state is not is not being distracted by thoughts but actually seeing the relationship between thoughts self and other types of perceptions and here I think recognizing and seeing thoughts is a form of perception it's just an internally directed perception this raises a topic that I'm also obsessed by which I think neuroscience can somewhat explain but still incomplete incompletely that the circuits and mechanics etc are not yet known which is about time perception and you know a simple analogy would be that there are a lot of small objects flying around in the space that we happen to be having this discussion but they're moving so fast that I can't perceive them or they're entirely stationary so I can't perceive them because of the reasons we talked about before in the visual system my eyes are moving in perfect concert with these with these small object movements and therefore they are what they're I am blind to them right a slight shift in time perception think of this perhaps as a change in the frame rate camera frame rates faster frame rate you can capture slow motion slower frame rate you're going to get more of a strobe type effect if the frame rate is low enough right could it be that our time perception is not one thing but we have one rate of perceiving time for external objects at a given distance which we know is true another frame rate for objects that are up close we know this to be true even if those objects are moving at the exact same speed right I mean this would be the sitting on a train the rungs on the fence seem to be going by very very fast but the ones in the distance seem to be moving slowly this is the way the visual system in time perception interconnect at some level you're up on a skyscraper the little ants of cars and people down below you know they're moving much faster than you perceive them to move yeah but it's the it's a distance effect me see you see a plane is could be going 300 miles now and it's not because of the lack of resolution the lack of resolution is incidental we know this because in animals such as hawks that have twice the degree of acuity as far as we know they have the same distance associated shifts in time perception so could it be that we are running multiple streams of time perception multiple cones of attention that include cones of attention to our thoughts and that somehow through meditation we start to align the frame rate for these different streams of attention so that they all fall into they all fall into the same movie if you will although it's not just a movie with visual content what I'm doing here is clearly I'm becoming a lumper rather than a splitter I'm sure this violates certain rules of time perception neural circuitry but I'm not sure that it's entirely untrue either and does it survive at all as a possible model for what you're describing and if the answer is no I'm perfectly comfortable with that. Well it's say it's dependent on what you mean by meditation this is where you sort of the particularities of what one is doing with one's attention under the you know the frame of meditation really matter because there are ways to practice where practice mindfulness in particular where the frame rate really does seem to go way way up right and there's actually been some research done on this where you take people you know before and after a three month silent meditation retreat and you give them some kind of visual discrimination task where they have to like detect I think they used to to kiss to scope is that the tool for there's some some they presents you know like very quick pulses of light and in any case you can discriminate just in any in any sensory channel I would imagine you can make finer grain discriminations if you're practicing mindfulness in a very specific way which is to be making these fine grain discriminations more and more and do nothing else for you know three months which is which is a way of practicing so you're so the classic you know mindfulness practice in what's called the Vapastana meditation is to pay scrupulous attention to seeing hearing smell and tasting touching in a way that breaks everything down into the it's kind of microscopic sensory moments so you know you're rather than feel your you know your hands pressing together what you're trying to feel with your attention and you're feeling more and more is all of the micro sensations of pressure and temperature and movement such that the feeling of hands completely disappears you realize that the hand as a concept and all you have is this cloud of of punctate and and very brief sensations and so so anything you think you you you have as a datum of experience as you as you bore into it with your attention it resolves into a this kind of diat the diaphanus cloud of changing sensation and that can be even even something as as captivating as like a you know a serious pain in your body and you have like a you know you could have injured your neck you know and so you have some excruciating pain in your neck if you just are willing to pay attention to it you know and just pay a hundred percent attention to it your a couple of things happen one is your resistance to feeling it goes away by definition because you're now your goal is just to just pay attention to it and you recognize that so much of the suffering associated with the pain was born of a of the resistance to feeling it you're kind of you're bracing against it and all of your thinking about it you know you're thinking like well well you know well why did I do this to myself or when should I see a North Appetis or well how long is this going to last and and you're you know maybe I herniated a disc like all of that self talk is producing an anxiety and you know I'm not saying there's never anything to think about there but you know either you can do something about it in the moment or you can't and so much of our suffering in the presence of pain is the result of resisting it worrying about it it's just all of the everything we're doing with our minds but just it's just feeling it right so when you just feel it but again it it breaks apart into this this ever change ever shifting collection of different sensations and it's not one thing and it never stays the same and it's and so there's two things happen there one is there can be a tremendous tremendous amount of relief that happens there where you you you can achieve a level of equanimity even in the presence of really unpleasant you know physical sensation and this is true of mental sensation as well as it's true of emotions you know the classically negative emotions like anger depression or you know fear the moment you become willing to just feel them in all of their you know punctate and changeable qualities they cease to be what they they were a moment ago they're just there and they when you're talking about emotional states they cease to map back on to you and your self concept as meaningful in the same way so that suddenly you know the anxiety you feel let's say before going out on stage to give a talk you know a moment ago it was it had psychological meaning it felt like you know okay I'm anxious how do I get rid of this you know why am I this sort of person what you know should I have taken a beta blocker you know this is the the conversation you're having with yourself the moment you just become willing to feel it as the pure energy of you know the physiology of you know of cortisol release it ceases to have any meaning it just it ceases to be a problem in that moment because it's no more it no more maps on to the kind of person you are then a feeling of indigestion or pain and your in your knee maps on to the kind of person you are it's just it's just sensation anyway but back to the main point here which is that if you train your attention in this way to notice the particularities of sensory experience and emotional experience like you're looking for the atoms of experience you know you get better and better at that and certain things happen but one thing that you have one thing that I really do think happens is there's a kind of frame rate change in in the data stream where you really are just you're just noticing much much more all of that is a very interesting way of training it's not what I tend to recommend now it's it's a great preliminary practice for what I do recommend because it gives you it really really teaches you the difference between being lost and thought and not it really teaches you what mindfulness is but it tends to be done you know by you know 99.9% of people in a dualistic way which you again you're you're set up to think okay I'm over here as the locus of attention you know and I'm continually getting distracted by thought and the project is to not do that anymore and actually pay attention to the breath and sounds and sensations and and every time I get lost in thought I'm going to go back here but this whole dance of I've lost in thought now I'm now I'm strategically directing my attention again all of this seems to ramify this sense of self the sense of there's one to be doing this there's somebody holding the spotlight of attention and getting better at coming back to the object of meditation again it's inevitable that 99.9% of people are going to start there and stay there for some considerable period of time but the thing I like to do when I talk about all of this is undercut the false assumptions that are anchoring all of that as early as possible because where I think you want to be is recognizing that there is no place from which to aim attention right there this whole dualistic setup of subject and object is the thing that is already not there and it's not that you it's not that it's there and you meditated out of existence successfully it's really not there and if you if you learn how to look for it you can see that it's not there and feel that it's not there and it no longer seems to be there right it's like it's it's not and it becomes like again like a by stable percept where you looked at it long enough and you thought okay now I see the vase and the face and I can't unsee it and every time I look it's it's there again right and so yeah that means that so to come back to the the example you gave with your your colleague at Stanford whose book I know I have I haven't read it is this is the he wrote a book projections right that's a Rothschild so it's it's on my stack to read but it's the opposite that what I'm recommending essentially the opposite end of the continuum of the sort of internal exercise he was he was doing so rather than so you know he's doing something very deliberate and controlled and he's you know he is deliberately thinking in complete sentences and kind of common daring the you know the the the machinery of thought and attention in a way that I would imagine I'm not be interested to talk to him about it but I would imagine he really feels like he's doing that right and there's there's an engineer it's you know it's as you describe it in this way it reminds me he's he's a physician but he's also an engineer so it's really about taking the the raw materials of thought and engineering something structured from it right right you know I haven't been in Carl's mind yeah but we got him talking on that we would get I'm sure we would get a set of what it is we'll do that conversation at some point but but it's exactly opposite what the exact opposite what the exact opposite would be to recognize that the sense of control is a total illusion right there it could because you don't know what you're going to think next right and even he in the most laborious way I mean he could he could just get his muscular as he wants with it he still doesn't know what he's going to think next right thought because thought simply arrives right like you know I mean you know you can run this experiment for yourself and this connects up to the topic of a free will which we might want to touch but I mean just think of any category of thing you know if I asked you to think of you know the names of cities or of you know friends you have or of famous people you you can you know remember exist or think of nouns or you know you know anything and just watch what comes percolating into consciousness right now there's there are things you can't think of right there are things you don't know the name of you know their languages you don't speak there's there are famous people you've never seen or never heard of right so like that like so you have no control over that part like that those those names and and faces are not going to suddenly come streaming into consciousness but of of the totality of facts and figures and faces and names that you do know right only some will come vying for inclusion right and they're not and there's there's a sort of you know we could make guess that we know something about the neurology of this but we know depending on what channel your your your waiting for thoughts in I mean it's going to be different if it's visual or semantic or or episodic memory and all these things are different but wherever you kind of point your inner gaze of attention and wait for the next face or name certain things are going to come and certain certain things aren't going to come and how you land on one right there'll be this process if you're paying attention to you you might think let's say we go with names of cities right you just you'll you'll think of Paris you'll think of London you'll think of Rome you'll think of Sedona you'll think like so these these names will come and if I ask you to just say one right so just many apples is what came to mind for me it was very straightforward is many apples the famous person was Joe Strummer and they just like I can give you reasons why I think they those came to mind recent conversations okay so so whatever so we know we know fair about a map fair bit about much of this so one of the things that you know that your reasons you know obviously could be right or wrong they're very likely to be wrong because we have this sort of confabula Tories storytelling mechanism even in an intact brain where we just you know we we all seem to never lack for the reasons why something came to mind and we know we can know we can manipulate people in ways that prove that people are just reliably wrong and confident you know confidently so about the reasons why they thought of things or did things but leaving that accurate right there are there are people's names who you know and city's names that you know that inexplicably just didn't come to mind and if we ran this experiment again and again again they they wouldn't come to mind if your brain was in precisely the state it was in a moment ago if we if we could return your brain to the state it was in a moment ago correcting for you know all the deterministic changes and all the random changes that would have to you know be corrected for it just get all the synapses and the synaptic weights and you know everything in the in the state it was in to produce Joe Strummer and Minneapolis right you're going to rewind that movie that you know that part of the movie of your life you are going to say Joe Strummer and Minneapolis a trillion times in a row right so this is why in my view the notion of free will makes absolutely no sense right and you can add as much randomness to that process as you want it still doesn't get you the freedom people think they have there's another conversation to have about you know why none of that matters and why things only get better once you admit to yourself that free wills no illusion and yes you can get in shape and you can die and you can do all the things you want to do and you don't have to think about free will but the from a from a contemplative meditative point of view the thing to notice is that everything is just springing in to view right you're like there's no place from which you are authoring your next thought because you would have to think it before you think it right like like it like there is just there is just this fundamental mystery at our backs that is discouraging everything that we experience and what if I'm speaking so if I'm talking about something and I have some command of that information I can often sense what I'm going to say next and then find myself saying it hopefully that's what I'm saying not something else I certainly said things I didn't intend to say or never thought that I would say in life but when engaged in speech or action it at least gives us the illusion I think that we somehow have more command over our thoughts. Yeah well you have a script I mean it's like there are things you know a lot about and you've talked you've talked about them a lot and you know you have the things you want to say about those things and the things you you don't want to say or you wouldn't want to say and you know you can say it's still is a bit of a high wire act because you can misspeak or you can fail to get to the end of a sentence grammatically correct way and and again all of this subjectively this whole process is mysterious to you right like you you don't know how you follow the rules of English grammar right like that like you just your tongue is doing it somehow and you know and when it fails it fails and you're just a surprise is the next guy that it failed and you know you mispronounce a word and okay I don't know what happened there but it's if it keeps happening I'm going to worry I had a stroke and you know it stops I'm I'm going to you know I'm not going to worry about it. So it's still mysterious even when you're doing it in a very wrote deliberative and repetitive way but when when you're talking about something you've talked about a lot and you know you sort of know where you're going to go right like and this is you know we we have many conversations like this it is somewhat analogous to like a golf swing where it's like you know how you want to do it it's going to be all kinds of errors that are going to creep into your execution of it in real time but there's like you basically have a pattern and so you you have certain linguistic patterns which you're following again none of this is a proof of free will but I will grant you that you know phenomenologically it feels different than just waiting for the next thought to come but my point is is that even if you're I mean you can trim it down to the simplest possible thing and like you take two things you like to drink right you may you like you like coffee and you like tea and you're deciding which to have right both are on offer you've got two cups in front of you and and the question is you know which you know or here I've got water and I've got coffee which am I going to drink next it's it's incredibly it's the simplest possible decision and no matter how long I make this decision process I could literally sit for an hour trying to figure out which to reach for next and I could have my reasons why and I could have my all myself talk there's there's going to be a final change in me that's going to be the approximate cause of me deciding one over the other and that no matter how laborious I can make it seem in in terms of my reasoning about it it is going to be fundamentally mysterious as to why I went with one rather than the other right whatever story I have because it's like it's it's still going to be as mysterious as you thinking of Joe Strummer when you absolute like you know of the existence of Marilyn Monroe just as much and yet she simply didn't occur to you right it's like it's it's fundamentally mysterious like there are people who are even more famous than Joe Strummer to you right who who I mean I'm sure you you know you you maybe somebody who you have thought a lot about but but they're they're people who like if we could just inventory you know your conscious life going back the last ten years they're people who you've thought about more than Joe Strummer yet they didn't appear right so and that's that is mysterious right and they could have but they didn't and so and what what I'm saying is that this mystery never gets banished in our experience whatever stories we have to tell about it like because if the story is oh well I went for the water because I you know I think I've been drinking too much coffee you know I listen to Andrew Hubertman's podcast and he was talking about caffeine and I think I probably good for us but you don't want over yeah yeah okay so let's say that is actually the causal chain like I listened to your podcast you said something about caffeine now I'm now I'm self-conscious about my coffee intake right but that's just just adding a couple of links to the chain there's still this fundamental mystery of well why did I find that persuasive and why what why did I find a persuasive now and not five minutes ago when I was drinking the coffee right like why did I just remember it now or why was it effective now like what like you you only have your experience in every moment is precisely what it is and not one bit more like and and and this subsumes even moments of real resolve and efforts and you know picking yourself up by your bootstraps and changing everything it's like you're on a diet and your tempted eat chocolate and you think you're about to reach you say no I'm not I'm not breaking this diet this diet is actually going to stick right okay why did that arise in that moment and not at this analogous moment on your last diet right and why did it arise now to precisely the degree that it did why why will it be as effective as it will be and have the half-life that it will have and not you know 10% more or less like all of those are always mysterious to you well could we give a as you did before and evolutionary and a developmental explanation and evolutionary explanation might be that directed attention in action is metabolically demanding it would be inefficient or impossible for us to be in constant you know deliberate action with access to all the relevant information as to why we would do anything so our ideas literally spring to the surface at the last possible moment in order to offset the metabolic the great metabolic requirements of having ideas that are related to goal directed action or that goal directed action is expensive that's one idea the other idea would be and we know this as a fact which is that initially the brain is fairly crudely wired that's not true within the neural circuits the control breathing heart rate etc but within the neural circuits of sensory perception thought etc and then across development there's a progressive pruning back and also in parallel to that a strengthening of the connections that underlie directed action and thought and here I don't mean directed as in free will I mean just that that can I can decide to imagine an apple and imagine that apple for instance right for your decision to be some maintenance of the the random find random wiring in systems I mean we've seen this even in in worms in flies in in you know in a so-called lower invertebrates and lower vertebrates and we see this in humans and it seems to be that there's a lot of background spontaneous activity I mean I've some electrodes into the brains of humans and macaques carnivores and mice and in every case most of what you hear is called hash and it has nothing to do with hashish is just a audio monitor which is picking up a bunch of action potentials right here listening to a course of action potentials but it's rare to find a neuron that faithfully fires to represent some sensory stimulus in the world and you can arrange that marriage experimentally so that you can arrive at those strong signal the noise events but I was always struck by how much noise there is in the system all around all the time and people argue is the noise really noise etc and is it you know there's still a lot to debate about that but I can imagine that some of the spontaneous nature of thoughts just relates to the fact that there's a lot of background spontaneous activity in the brain now why that is is a whole other discussion but but if I were to sort of set up to constraints that there's a lot of spontaneous activity it's going to generate random thoughts thankfully not much random action although there's a little bit of random action in our daily lives and then against that say well any deliberate thought or motion is going to be expensive right it's a metabolically expensive organ to begin with and so you just have to evolution has arrived at a place where spontaneous geysering up of things upon which like deliberate thoughts and action are superimposed is the best arrangement overall for this very metabolically demanding organ is that is that I mean what I basically gave was just kind of a biological description of one just one narrow aspect of it but can we get comfortable with that and the reason I say get comfortable is that you know I'm here I admittedly I'm forcing a little bit of a strip tease towards what I think I and everyone else wants to know which is how to meditate and why in particular meditation convinces us that something doesn't necessarily have to be eliminated but that was actually never there I feel like we're we're now set up of sort of a almost like a you're not contradicting yourself by any means but in my mind there's a contradiction and here's the contradiction I love this statement that meditation over time or done properly reveals to us that we're actually not trying to make the gap between actor and observer go away it was actually never there to me that's one of the more important statements that I've perhaps have ever heard and it inspires me to go further down this path of meditation because I've never experienced that not deliberately and certainly not through meditation if I ever experienced it it was transient enough that I you know I'm intrigued to to experience more so on the one hand you're telling me something was never there and there's a profound experience to be had by anyone that's willing to do the work to arrive at that experience of the loss of that illusion on the other hand I'm hearing that there's a profound gap that really does exist which is that you know we we believe that our thoughts are somehow from us and indeed they're from in in the cranial vault someplace maybe in the body a bit as well but that we over attribute the degree to which we are that and that is us in a way that's volitional that we control and so at once I'm hearing that there's something there's an illusion that we can eliminate and on the other hand I'm hearing that there's an illusion that we can't eliminate and maybe these are unrelated and I'm bridging them in it in an unimportant way that seems only important to me but somehow I can't resolve these two and maybe the thing to do then is can we separate them in terms of a practice to witness them that would allow us to resolve them separately right so yeah I think I I'm hearing the problem there's this well let me like kind of brag at the whole free will discussion because it's it really is the flip side of this coin that I'm you know the the the opposite which is the illusion the illusion of the cell so at least I might be on the right track they are the opposite sides of a corner yeah because to me they seem very different in essence no because because what I'm calling the sense of cell and what people what I think most people feel as their core sense of self is the this feeling of I mean it's the feeling of being the locus of attention but it's also the feeling of being the locus of agency like I can do the next thing I like who's doing this who's reaching for the cup I am right I intended this and now I'm doing the thing my and my intent my conscious intention is the the proximate cause of my reaching right so I'm the odd and so I'm the author of my thoughts and actions essentially and I'm and my and my specific uses of attention right so I can I can pay attention to the breath I get lost in thought I come back to the breath but you know the lot that the ins on some level the thoughts themselves are more of my doing something with with almost you know the authorial intent right I'm think like what the hell is this guy talking about I'm I know I'm think you know I know I you know who's thinking the thoughts I am right like that's that's the person who really doesn't get what I'm saying is thinking something like that right like what the fuck is this guy talking about like I like I know I'm here I'm a cell I'm you know I'm a body I'm a mind I can reach for things that these are these intentional actions are different from things that happened to me right a voluntary action is different from an involuntary one you know so having a tremor is different from consciously deciding to pick up a glass right so obviously everything I'm saying about meditation and the cell up and free will in order to be a sane picture of a human mind and of reality has to conserve the data of experience such that yes I can acknowledge the difference between a tremor and a deliberative you know voluntary motor action and you know and the things you do volitionally are different not just psychologically and behaviorally but they just have different implications for like they different in a court of law you know you accidentally hit someone with your car or you did it on purpose that's still a distinction that matters right it importantly it tells us a lot about the global properties of your mind such that you know we have a sense of what you're likely to do in the future if you're someone who likes running over people with your car you know you're a psychopath who we need to worry about you're someone who did it by accident well then you know you may be culpable for the level of negligence that allow that to happen but you're you're a very different person and we treat you differently and we were wise to so anyway we can those let's bracket all of that there's this I mean there's some fundamental there's there's some false assumptions about the underlying logic of this process which I think it's worth addressing and it is actually there's a kind of found object in the news that I talk about at one point I forget where it is and in the waking up at but there's a story that I stumbled on on the internet I think it's about 12 or 13 years old of a a tourist bus in I think was Norway it was somewhere in northern Europe and it had about 30 people on it and one person was it was described as an Asian woman and they all they went to a rest stop and everyone got off the bus and they you know shopped and had lunch and and this Asian woman changed her clothing for whatever reason and they all got back on the bus I think the relevance of it being an Asian woman is that you know the language barriers that that explain what later happened so everyone gets back on the bus the Asian woman has changed her clothing and the bus is about to leave but then someone notices hey there's there's there was an Asian woman who got off the bus who isn't it hasn't come back yet and they tell the driver this and this poses a problem so now everyone's waiting for this person to return but in fact everyone was on the bus that this woman had just changed her clothing and was not recognized by her fellow travelers so everyone gets concerned as this this tourist doesn't you know show up and they start looking for right and they can't find her and so a search party is formed and the Asian woman because of the whatever language barrier. I heard that there was a missing tourist so she joins the search party which in fact is looking for her right and this goes on into the night and they're ready in helicopters that you know for a dawn patrol to find the mission missing tourists now at some point along the way I think was it like three in the morning this tourists realizes that she is the object of this search right and obviously the whole thing unravels she confesses that she changed her clothes and you know that the problem is solved but the problem is not solved by the the logic that the seeker is expected right so it's like it's not true to say that the missing tourist was found in in the way that was expected right because the missing tourist was never lost the missing tourist was part of the search party right and so when you think about it from her point of view like what happened she's part of the search party she's looking for the missing tourist not knowing that she in fact is the missing tourist so what happens at the moment she realizes that everyone's looking for her right like what what is it the the search isn't consummated in the way that is implied by the logic of everyone's use of attention and yet the problem evaporates and there's something deeply analogous about the structure of that and the the meditative journey we in precisely in again not talking about all the changes in the possible changes in the contents of consciousness they could be good which again cut the they come along for the ride anyway when you when you do the thing I'm talking about it's on this point of looking for the self and not finding it and there is this sense that okay the self is here and it's a problem it is the the string upon which all of my conscious states mostly unhappy ones are strong right it's the thing that is at the center of my anxiety it's the it's the it's the it's the thing that I don't feel good about it's the thing that when criticized I sort of let implode it's the center of my problem and now I'm trying to feel better and meditation has been handed to me as a as a possible you know remedy for my situation and it and it's build as a remedy in fact it's it's it's I'm hearing from this guy that this is the thing that is going to cause me to realize that myself isn't where you know or as I thought it was so now I'm going to look right and so again you're you're the sense is I start out far away from the goal here I start out with a problem I'm now meditating on the evidence of my unenlightenment right I can feel my problem I feel that I'm distracted and distractable and I feel as this sort of cramp at the center of my life it's me and I'm not as happy as I want to be I'm not as confident as I want to be I'm I'm more distractable than I want to be and now I'm paying attention to the breath right this is what the search party feels like this is what the the confused tourist feels like in her own search party and she's she's looking she's looking for the missing person and so the so the the angle of you know the inclination of all of this is and the logic of it is all wrong you know understandably so given how we all get into this situation but you know it's useful to continually try to under undercut it and recognize that the thing that's being looked for is is actually right on the surface which is you know the there is no one looking there is no place from which you are paying if you're paying attention to the breath or to sounds or noticing the next thought arise this sense that you are over here doing that thing is actually what it's like to be thinking and not knowing that you're thinking you're not there's a there's a thought there's an undercurrent of thought that's going unexpected in that moment and so there is just a there's a continually looking for the mind looking for the center of experience looking for the one who is looking which again which is the kind of the the orientation practice here and there's a lot more I say about this obviously over waking up but it's it's the experiment you have to perform in order to get ready to recognize that this whole this the search party you know was formed in in error essentially and the the problem that you're trying to do with this practice does evaporate in in a similar way which is like you don't actually get there in the way that you're hoping for right it's like you like you drop out the bottom of this thing in an unexpected way it's not there's actually another kind of a similar parable or or anecdote that I don't remember if it's the year I mean I'm sure it's been reappropriated in many different ways but or by many different traditions but there's this you know the the case of somebody who's lost in a town and they're asking for directions you know you could put this in in in Manhattan you could let's say you're wondering Manhattan and you're a tourist you don't know where anything is and you stop and ask someone you know where a central park and the person thinks for a second they says oh yeah unfortunately you can't get to central park from here right and that is a very strange I mean we think about that for a second you realize okay that's a that's an absurd I mean there is no place that you can't get to from the place you're starting you know on earth right that's the earlier to describe the physical relationships between anything in the world yeah that's just not the world we live in right so but it's a funny thing but but on some level that is true of meditation it's like you can't get there from here like the sense of you the sense of you as subject isn't brought along to this thing you're looking for right like you're like you're you know it's almost like it's almost like you're you're making a fist and you're trying to get to an open hand the fist doesn't get to take that journey as a fist right like you don't the fist doesn't go along for the ride the fist comes apart right and and on some level that our subjectivity is a kind of an intentional fist you know it's it is a contraction of energy again it's it's so much bound up in thought for for most of us most of the time that is and it get when when properly inspected there's just this you know evaporation of the starting point but there's not this there's not this fulfillment of I'm going to get this fist is going to just going to if I you know if life gets good enough if I get concentrated enough focused enough you know if I austere enough if I renounce enough if I desire less if I you know you know enough enough with enough good intentions this fist is going to move into some sort of sublime condition right that's not the logic of the process I really appreciate these models and analogies for conscious experience both as most people experience them and harbor them and it's as a way to frame what's possible through a through a proper meditation practice I do want to talk about what a proper meditation practice looks like a bit but at some point I do want to raise a model of maybe even just perceptual awareness to see if it survives the filters that you provided but first just even if briefly and then we can return to it you know what does this meditation practice or set of practices look like obviously the app is a wonderful tool I've started using it as I mentioned the beginning my father's been using it for a while and many people have drive great benefit from it but if we were to break it down meditation into some basic component parts as we have broken down normal perceptual experience in some of its component parts yeah I can just throw out some things that I associate with meditation and maybe you can elaborate on on how these may or may not be applied for instance there is almost always a ceasing of motor robust motor movement I know they're walking meditations and so forth but seems like sitting or lying down and perhaps not always but often limiting our visual perception closing the eyes directing a mind's eye someplace is there a dedicated effort toward generating imagery what are the component parts and where I'm really going with this is why would those component parts eventually allow for this dissolution of the fist or the realization that there is no distinction between actor and observer and so on yeah yeah also to answer the second question first ultimately meditation is not a practice that you're adding to your life it's not it's not doing more of anything is actually ceasing to do something it's ultimately non distraction I mean it's ultimately you're recognizing what consciousness is like when you're no longer distracted by the the automatic arising of thought it's not the thoughts don't arise it's not that you can't use them it's not that you've become irrational or or you know unintelligent I mean all of that you still have all of your tools but there everything is in plain view I mean there's an analogy in Tibetan Buddhism which I love which is you know kind of in the final stage of meditation thoughts are like thieves entering an empty house you know there's nothing for them to steal right so you know in the usual case thoughts are there really is something in jeopardy the every time a thought comes I'm not meditating anymore and not only that I feel terrible because of what I'm thinking about most of the time right and so it's totally understandable that thoughts seem like a problem in the beginning and for certain types of meditation they are explicitly thought of as a problem because you're trying to focus on one thing to the exclusion of everything else including thought and that is a kind of what I call concentration practice earlier and that is a you know it's a that's a training that can be good to do it becomes a tool that you can use for other kinds of of insight but it's a very specific and it's kind of brittle skill in the end I mean it's a it is a skill just like I'm going to pay attention to one thing and I'm going to do that so well that everything else is going to fade out and it's somewhat analogous to what you described in the visual system if you if you you know if you have laser focus to one fixation point everything else in your visual field begins to to fade out but but meditatively if you have a laser focus on any one thing what whether it's the breath or or you know a candle flame or whatever it is not only does I mean let's let's use the breath for you know for a second because your eyes are can be closed you can lose all sense of everything I mean you can lose all sense of hearing and your physical body can disappear I mean like literally can become incredibly subtle and vast and drug like and many people approach meditation thinking kind of climbing the ladder of those changes into subtlety and vastness that's the whole that's the whole game right and it can be a deeply rewarding game to play and it also does come with all kinds of ancillary benefits I mean all the focus and the calm and the kind of smoothness of emotional states I mean all that comes with greater concentration and it can be quite wonderful but again at best that's a tool to aim in the direction that I'm talking about now with with respect to meditation which relates to more what I would call you know mindfulness generically and ultimately kind of non-dual mindfulness so mindfulness generically and for most people certainly in the beginning dualistically is just the practice of paying careful attention to whatever is arising on a zone right now in the beginning it's natural to take a single object like the breath as a starting point it's kind of an anchor but you know very very quickly you know over the course of even you know your first week of doing this people you know teachers and you know various sources of information will recommend that you know once you get some facility once you know the difference between being lost and thought and actually paying attention to the breath well then you can open it up to everything you know put up to sounds and other sensations in the body and and moods and emotions and even ultimately thoughts themselves and so very quickly you can recognize that thoughts are not intrinsically the enemy to this practice they are also just spontaneous appearances in consciousness that can be observed but for some considerable period of time people will feel that there is a place from which that observation is happening right there is just you know I'm now the one who's being mindful and however attenuated that sense of self can be I mean again it can get very expansive I mean you can you know you can lose you know as you get anything just a monochrome of concentration you know it becomes very drug like and you get you know your the boundaries of your body dissolve and you're feeling of having a body can disappear and and you know if your eyes are closed you know your visual field I mean most people when they close their eyes initially they just forget about their visual field but you know if you close your eyes right now you notice your visual field is fully present and you know it's you we call it dark but it's not quite dark there is this sort of scintillating some field of of color and shadow that's there in the darkness of your closed eyes and that can become a sky like domain of kind of vast you know visual expression that opens up as you as you get more concentrated with you know with your eyes closed right so you're so you can very much be aware of seeing with your eyes closed in and meditative practice but from the point of view of mindfulness the logic is not to care about any of the interesting changes and experience that come as a result of practicing in this way because what you're what the the underlying goal is is to be more and more Aquanimous with changes so not to grasp at what's pleasant or interesting and not to push what's unpleasant or or you know boring or you know otherwise not engaging away what you want is just a kind of a sky like mind that just allows everything to appear and you're not clinging to anything or or reacting to anything could I ask you what your thoughts are about the differences between nouns adjectives and verbs in the context of what we're talking about and you're describing and the reason bring this up is that as you know I know everything in biology as a process you know we we would never ever say oh you know the perception of that red line on a painting is is a noun right I mean it's an event in the visual system you're you're abstracting some understanding about that thing in the outside world and I think it's very useful in thinking about the brain and people notice I notice I excuse me actively avoid the use of the word mind because I figure out especially with you sitting across from me that I'll step in it if I if I do but the brain generates a series of perceptions or what have you by through processes not nouns and so when thinking about biology I think of development is a is an arc of processes aging as an arc of perception is an arc of process they just exist on different time and so a little bit of what I'm hearing is that inside of an effective meditation practice there's a little bit of a of a certainly non-judgment but discarding of the the noun and the adjective modes of language like red apple okay it's a red apple but then you sort of need to eliminate some adjectives about it's a rotten apple it's a you know ripe apple and instead view the appearance and disappearance of that apple as a it's just a thing a process as opposed to an event and now events could we could really get into the language aspect of the that just reveals how diminished languages to describe the context of the brain at some level I don't know if any of this resonates but it but it seems to me the goal or one of the goals is to start to understand the algorithm that is the fleeting nature of perception but to not focus on any one single perception and then to not even focus on one single algorithm but to at some level there's a what is revealed to the way later over time is some sort of macroscopic principle about the way perceptions work at a deeper level right that there's that there's sort of a deeper principle there that sits below our certainly our normal everyday awareness but that in paying attention to the mechanics of all this stuff and not judging those mechanics not naming those mechanics or just naming them and let them pass by that there's some action function some verb is real and that maybe that verb maybe the word to describe that verb is mindfulness maybe mindfulness is really just a verb to describe that I don't know but is there anything here am I create my creating just like useless straw or if there's if there's actually a seed here of something real but to me anytime I want to understand something in biology or psychology I train broad in the time domain and think in terms of verbs not nouns or adjectives yeah yeah no that that's very useful and that's somewhat adjacent to this distinction I'm making between dualistic and non dualistic ways of experiencing the world so even dualistically everything is still a process right and we're misled by the justification that noun talk gives us so and this this applies not just to something like mindfulness but even to something like the self right so the sense of self is also a process I mean it's it's a verb it's not it's a work we're selfing more than we are selves right and and there you know I even even appropriate uses of of the term self that don't go away even when you when you recognize that the this the core subject self is an illusion there there are states of self right where you you can recognize in your life that you inhabit very different modes of of being depending on the context so like there are moments where you just by walk into a certain building you suddenly transition into a different state of self like like suddenly you pass through a door and now you're a customer in a store right so we know what that customer feeling is like you're now the person who's getting the attention is a very kind of formalized type of attention from the person who's running the store and you know or a restaurant your customer restaurant right that's a just remember something that's kind of funny that it was born of a mismatch of this so I'll come back to that in a second but so there are so we would go through it you can be a you know you can be a student in the presence of a teacher you can be a parent in the presence of a son or a daughter you can be a spouse and presence in presence of your spouse and all of those shading of like the change in context really does usher in some fundamental psychological changes in just the states of consciousness that are available to you I mean and it's and some of this is really I mean I'm sure we can understand a lot about this you know personally and you know generically but it is pretty mysterious I mean like I mean there are people who I know who I you know I'm with them in a certain way and like based on something I'm getting off of them like I can't be that I'm effortlessly one way with them and there's no way I could be that way with somebody else right like it's just I don't know if it's the pheromones or their their facial just the way they are their facial expression but I mean there are people with whom I'm really kind of effortlessly funny and their people with whom you know I couldn't even it would never occur to me to be funny no matter what happened you know it's like and and I have like long standing relationships with with these people you know so like it's just very you know all that's very mysterious but anyway the the difference there is is not in this core sense of subject in relationship to all the objects it's in kind of the states of self and but and all that is just is very verbi right like all this is the pattern of changes it's a pattern of what's available and what's not available the capacities that are you know that are they come online or not in those various context but no the the memory just had which I hadn't had had a long time but it was one of these these moments where I realized the power of these shifts in context for states of self so I once I was a young man I think was I was probably 22 or so and single and like you just like trying to figure out how how how do you meet women and like how does how does one get confident to do this well and I am I walked into a restaurant and a kind of a woman was walking toward me at you know you know toward the front door of the restaurant but she was walking toward me in a way where I just by default assumed she was the hostess in the restaurant but she wasn't the hostess she was just a you know someone who just eaten there I guess so I walk through and she comes out so that there's a fundamental misunderstanding in me that's set up by literally just this change in architecture and I and so I just said hi to her in a way that I would I presumably I would say hi to any hostess who was coming up to ask me whether I wanted to sit but what it actually happened is I said hi to a total stranger in a way that I tended at that point never to say hi to total strangers because I was shy and you know just like but apparently I gave her like a 10,000 what high high of like all of the confidence you would have if you if you were that sort of person and it just ushered in a complete like this is so I went to my table and this woman I came back into the restaurant like gave me her phone number right which was something that was just completely foreign experience to me you know and it was based completely on my misunderstanding of the situation I wasn't right and so anyway that among the under the way I was going to do the same thing and so anyway that among the understanding among the misunderstandings that one can have and then action engage in life I that was a someone of doubt move one. Yeah, but but then you realize that okay but then there are certain people who recognize this machinery to whatever degree or have net kind of natural aptitudes for bringing certain things online or not such that okay they can make these state they can consciously make these states of self you know this kind of this level of gregariousness say available to them in different you know in the circumstances where it's actually useful to them so like if you if you're single and you want to meet people well it's actually very helpful to feel confident enough to just say hi to strangers now somehow they're doing and to and to be to be you know online you know in that way where at that point in my life in that circumstance you know by you know by default I was going to ignore this stranger who I was passing by in the door way of a restaurant but thinking she was the hostess I was engaging her you know fully so anyway you can consciously again this does not invoke free will at all but yes you can consciously decide to play with this with these mechanisms such that you can decide what state states of self would be more normative to have given what you want in life and and and you can actually do that and you can actually do that. And what you want in life and and you can become increasingly you know attentive to the ways in which you get played by the world you know you're a kind of instrument your mind is a kind of instrument your brain is a kind of instrument that is continually getting played by the situations you're in and you can become more of it an intelligent curator of your conscious states and your conscious capacities just by noticing the changes in you like I in graduate school is somebody to talk about I think at some point in waking up this became very stark for me because I had you know I was a you know an old graduate student I had taken 11 years off at Stanford you between my sophomore and junior year right so I like I when I went back to school talk about a leave of absence. But I mean the so Stanford had this you might know this they have the stop out policy where you never really drop out you just stop as you're like and always go back you don't have to write letters saying that you still exist every you know two years as you do in other schools so anyway showed up after 11 years and but you know so I was really on a deadline I felt late for everything so I'm kind of finishing my degree you know as quickly as I can as an undergraduate and then I jump into graduate school and I'm an old graduate student and I'm you know there's a real sense of kind of urgency like I'm late I want I should have done this earlier I want to get the stuff done but then 9 11 happened and I as just as I had finished my coursework you know getting my my PhD I was just getting into my research but 9 11 intersected with my life in such a way that I just had to drop everything and write my first book and I did that and then I just had to drop everything and write my second book because of the response to the first book and so essentially I had like four years where I was a wall doing my PhD but I was still had a toe in the lab and I was still showing up occasionally but I was becoming this kind of cautionary tale from the point of view of grad school but I was also becoming kind of a famous you know or send my famous writer because my first book had been a a New York Times bestseller and I just I was you know so I was getting some notorieties or a writer and so I was doing things like you know I was giving a TED talk but I still hadn't finished graduate school right so like it was just it was some I think that timing is right maybe I had just finished graduate school when I gave the TED talk but anyway so I was in rowing in two boats and one boat was syncing or you know showing every sign of being damaged And I was literally like, you know, getting letters from the head of the department saying, you know, we're concerned about you. But on the other hand, I was like becoming a, you know, a quasi celebrity in that world, too, you know, at least in a world that was overlapping. So I was having the experience of like going in, I mean, the moment where this crystallized would form me in a fairly peculiar way was I had a meeting at like three o'clock with my advisor who was just this guy Mark Cohen and the Brain Mapping Center and UCLA was a fantastic guy. Great advisor. I did not extract as much wisdom from him as I should have brilliant scientist. And you know, he's for him, I'm late, right? At least in my head, like he is not that he was right in me so hard, but like in my head, I'm very self-conscious about how I'm not living up to his expectations at this point. So I have a meeting with him at like three o'clock and I'm just kind of wilting, you know, under my, you know, you know, his gaze and my own imagined, you know, inner gaze of his, you know, but that two hours later, I have a meeting with his boss, you know, a dinner meeting with his boss who wants to meet with me to get advice on launching his book. We have the same publisher, but I'm like the much bigger author at, you know, at Norton, you know, and he's coming to me for advice. And so I'm ricocheting between two diametrically opposite self states that are, again, this comes down to architecture. It's literally like the state I was in, walking into one building and then leaving and walking into another building on the same campus. And they were completely opposite self concepts. Like in one context, I am a fuck up in another context. I'm a celebrity who's you have mastery and virtuosity and yeah, and we're developing it very quickly. Yeah. And, but so again, this is kind of a stark version of that, but everyone has some version of this just in bouncing between talking to their mom and then talking to their best friend and then talking to a stranger than and talking to someone who's, who's very successful, talking to someone who's not very sick. Like all, you notice your vulnerability to all of this stuff. And ultimately, what you want is a level of psychological integrity that is truly divorceable from that. Now, I'm not saying you're ever going to get it perfect. You know, there's always going to be some, I mean, I can't talk about the ultimate fulfillment of this process. Like I'm not, you know, I'm not a Buddha. I'm not saying I've finished the project. But I think there's more and more you, you know, as you become sensitive to these changes and you become sensitive to what it's like to actually not be psychologically reactive and not be definable by your own self concept, your own idea, and you're not identifying with anything. You're not hanging your hat on anything. You're not thinking about yourself in terms, in the kind of terms that you would export to others and then care about what they think about you, right? Like, there's a kind of invulnerability that arises that's not born of being well-defendant. It's born of being evaporated, right? It's like, you're no longer keeping score in those ways. Once again, I really appreciate that description because these days I'm really intrigued by something we've known for a long time that I'm certainly familiar with is the prefrontal cortex's ability to establish context-dependent rule sets. A strup task will be a basic example of reading numbers or letters on on cards and then switching to having to report the colors that the letters and numbers are written in. It's a basic task, but prefrontal cortex is obviously important for setting context-dependent thought and behavior and directed action. Within the context of all these different variations of the self, depending on graduate school or relationship, or sitting alone in one's room, they're different rule sets arise. Somehow, we are able to have a coherent sense of self that encompasses all of those. Functional people can toggle between them as needed and not overlap them inappropriately. It's not the extent that it's career failing or life failing. Although, there are sad examples of that, many of which exist in the Twitter space. I know several colleagues, not directly of mine, but people who, through mistakes made with their thumbs, where they forgot context or forgot to realize that the context on social media is near infinite, but the context that existed in their head might not be clear in the way that they communicated something and they lost their jobs by saying what were perceived as insensitive things. In some cases, we're in fact offensive and insensitive things. In some cases, it's debatable. In any case, I think that the image that now comes to mind relates to something you've said several times, that it's not about eliminating something. It's about revealing that something was never actually there. In terms of sensor experience and these different aspects of the self, I have this image in my mind of not an experienced scuba diver, but I've done enough of it, you know, born a wetsuit. You wear a complete wetsuit with the hood. This idea, if you were born into that wetsuit, you might think that you nudge up or lean up against a wall and you experience it one way, right? Were you to shed that wetsuit? You thought, wow, there's this incredible landscape of somatosensory experience that I had no idea. It goes way beyond levels of sensitivity, right? Now you're trying to find two-point discrimination and light strokes and this could be positive or negative pain in other ways too. But what you're describing is essentially that the wetsuit was never really there, but was created through a series of action steps. I think what we're migrating towards here is for most non-intuitive or non-reflexive action steps that reveal to us that, in fact, we're not wearing this wetsuit. Now you raised one topic which I think is analogous to this wetsuit, which is this notion of distraction. The normally distraction is masking what would otherwise be a better experience of life. I can think of distraction as falling into two different bins. One would be the kind of distraction that is internally generated, like the fact that thoughts arise and pull me down different alleyways and avenues of my brain and my thoughts and my experience. The other would be, and that would compete with my ability to really focus on something. And then another form of distraction which captures my ability to focus intensely but has me focusing on the wrong things. Here, I think the judgment of wrong is reasonable to include, if, for instance, I'm being impulsively yanked to something on social media. I'm being impulsively yanked to someone else's pain and experience and somehow confusing that with my own experience. This is an empathy, but just yanked around my attention as a spotlight is kind of like over here, over there. I'm not feeling as if I'm the one standing behind that spotlight controlling it or I'm not the spotlight just to keep with what we've been building up here. So could you tell us a little bit about distraction and tell me whether or not these two forms are in any way accurate or inaccurate, I'd be happy for them to be inaccurate and whether or not there are other forms of distraction that we need to be on the lookout for. And again, I think what most people are seeking is what is the way to not just enhance our ability to focus but to shed this wetsuit like cloak that limits our experience that I'm calling and that you've called distraction. Yeah, I get, well, distraction is one component of it. The other aspect of it is identification with thought and identification. The feeling of self is bound up in the sense that I'm the thinker, I'm the one attending, I'm the one vulnerable. I'm the inner kind of the inner homunculus that's vulnerable to experience and it can be gratified by it or not. And it's constantly trying to improve it and mitigate negative aspects of it. It's the sense that there's kind of a rider on the horse of consciousness as opposed to just consciousness and its contents. So again, it rides the top of this illusion of control, et cetera. So to go all the way back to the question you asked about just what I recommend as a starting point for meditation, some of your assumptions are in fact true. Yes, I often recommend beginning people close their eyes and you do a sitting practice and that's different from a walking practice. I mean, you can do both but people tend to start sitting with their eyes closed. But again, ultimately where this is going is it's not an art of meditation properly recognized as not an artifice that you're adding to your life. But it's not even a practice. It is less rather than more. And therefore it is also coincident with potentially every waking moment. There's nothing that you can do with your attention once you know how to meditate that in principle excludes meditation because meditation is just a recognition of an intrinsic character of consciousness in each moment. All you have in each moment is consciousness and its contents, whatever you're doing. So in the beginning you'll be very deliberate and precious about deciding to practice meditation and you'll set aside 10 minutes in the morning and you'll do that and then it'll seem very different from the next 10 minutes when you're spilling out onto your to do list and you're trying to figure out what the day looks like. But ultimately you want to erase this boundary between formal practice and the rest of life such that there's, it's just not remotely findable. And that's achievable and I think even from the very beginning you can relax this conceptual distinction between meditation and its antithesis because it's not at the level of anything you're doing is the level of what's happening in your relationship to thought. What can you notice when you know, it's the transition from the by stable percept. You're looking at the image and you see nothing. Let's say the Dalmatian, it's just the spots on the paper and you just, you don't see anything and then all of a sudden the Dalmatian or the face of Jesus or whatever. The images pops out and then you see it, it's the transition from nothing to something. The practice becomes the transition from being lost in thought and then waking up and breaking the spell of thought, identification with thought is very much like waking up from a dream and having, it's like that transition, the whole, like you're having a dream and there's a couple of things are true there. It really is a kind of, it's a psychosis that is just not, we don't problematize because you're safely in bed and you're not moving or anything else, you've got some kind of sleep disorder, you're not walking around harming yourself or anybody else. But to be in bed and to not know it and to think you're running along a beach or you're getting tried for murder and a court of law or whatever the thing is that you're completely delusional about, that is psychosis and it's like you're fundamentally unaware of your circumstance and then there are two things going to happen there. You can either become lucid within the dream which is interesting and that's a whole phenomenology of that which can be practiced but more commonly you can just wake up from the dream and all of a sudden the problem you thought you had is no longer there and you have a completely different context for your conscious life. Like now you know you're in bed, you're safely in bed all the while. There really is something analogous when you break this identification with thought, right? You're just, you're having a thought that seems to be some kind of, you know, moral or psychological emergency and yet you can, you can, the moment you see daylight around it, the moment you see that the mind is larger than this mere appearance, right? Then you have, suddenly you have a degree of freedom that a moment ago was just unthinkable, right? And you're also, you recognize, you sort of come to in a way, you recognize your circumstance in a way that you weren't a moment ago when you were just talking to yourself, when you were just identical to that conversation. So there's all to say that ultimately meditation, I mean so again there's another parent paradox here. Many people don't know much about meditation. We'll say things like, you know, well, you know, for me running is by meditation or skiing or rock climbing or playing the guitar or something they like to do that gives them an experience of flow. That's what that's what they go to to feel better and that's the opposite of all the, you know, the chaos of their lives or the, you know, their time on Twitter or whatever it is. In virtually every case, it's not true to say that that is effectively meditation. You're not going to, by learning to play the guitar, you're not going to learn what I'm calling meditation and you're not going to learn it by, you know, cycling or getting getting, you know, no matter how good you get at any of those things, you're not going to learn it by doing those things. But paradoxically, you're not really, but it can seem like a paradox. Once you know how to meditate, then you can meditate doing all of those things, right? Meditation is totally compatible with playing the guitar or skiing or, you know, doing any ordinary thing you like to do, right? So once you know how to meditate and again, it's totally natural in the beginning to formalize it and to set aside time each day to do it because it is a, it is a training. I mean, it is something that in the beginning you have to get used to. But once you have, once you're getting used to it, then there is no good reason not to be experiencing this thing I'm calling meditation, this insight into the, the centrallessness of consciousness, the non-selfhood of consciousness. You should experience it when you're playing your favorite sport or when you're having a conversation with somebody. And then the reason, then to come back to your initial assumption about eyes closed, a lot of practice, even formal practice can be done eyes open and it's important to do it eyes open because so much of our anchoring of our sense of self is based on visual cues. I mean, we just, we know that you can, if you give people the right visual cues, you can translocate their sense of self. You can give them an out of body experience, you know, with a video display where you can literally make them feel like you go, there's a body swapping illusion, you can make them, you can make them feel that they're in another person's body looking back at their body. If you, if you run the cameras the right way. I've done this in VR, seeing an image of, of, you, they create an avatar for you and then your bodily movements generate the movements of the avatar and you start gaining presence as they call it in the VR. Lingo very quickly and then pretty soon, you lose sense of your own bodily representation and yeah. And it's a little eerie, what's eerie is to me is I'm going back into, of course, never left, but back into your actual body when the VR goggles pop off, the world seems almost overwhelming the number of sensory stimuli that are in a, like a laboratory room, which is actually quite sparse. Right. So exactly what you describe, this translocation of notions of self through visual experience. But conversely, when you lose the sense of self, the sense of self I'm talking about, it can be especially vivid and salient with eyes open because it, because so much, so many of your reference points to selfhood are delivered visually, right? Especially in a social situation. So like, you know, I'm talking to you, you're looking back at me, right? So you're, the implication of your gaze is that I'm over here behind my face, implicated by your gaze. So the sense that you're looking at something is the sense of self in that social context, right? And so, and if you're, if you're facial expression changes, like I'm saying something, and if you kind of throw your brow, like, well, what the hell is it? And I can read into that facial change some interstate of yours that is, you know, salient to me. All of a sudden, we've got this sort of dance of like, I'm noticing you reacting to me, and I'm, that's, that's changing the way I'm feeling about what I'm, that, that's, that's the, you know, the, the purview of, you know, every neurosis, everyone didn't want, right? And every relationship, I had a girlfriend when I was a postdoc who was, who was, um, very, very, uh, she was brilliant, really, um, still is. And she always said that every relationship, the reference is, is, is there four arrows? She was just, she's a neuroscientist. Still is. And said, you know, there's the arrow of, you know, uh, she was talking to me. So she said, you know, me to you and kind of what you perceive coming from me. And then there's you to me. And then there's an arrow from the middle going right back at each one of us, which is our own perception of what the other person is thinking about us. And it's feeding back on the other arrow. And she gave me this very, um, clear, but, um, model of basically relationships. Um, uh, the relationship failed, but it was good while it lasted, I should say. And, um, but the four arrow model of relationships actually shows up in every type of, uh, one, one on one of relationships. And it's probably an under-description of, of the total number of arrows. And as I think it's exactly what you're describing is that perception of self through the eyes of other, whether or not we're empathic or not strongly shapes the way that we access different context dependent rule sets about what we're going to say and not going to say. It's a very dynamic, right? Yeah. So, but the, the freedom that I think we want and people can sometimes experience this just haphazardly, but the thing that the center of the bullseye from the meditative point of view is to get off that ride entirely and to, so, so the losing the sense of self in this context of, of a social encounter is to, is to give up your face, essentially, like your, like, so, and, and what, what that entails is, or what that gives you is the free attention to actually just pay attention to the other person, right? And the other person is now no longer quite an object in the world for you. There's really just kind of a totality of which that person is a part. And and actually, you know, Martin Boober, the, the, the kind of mystical, uh, Jewish philosopher talked about the kind of the eye, the owl relationship. And this, I think it's, you know, it's been long times when I've read Boober, but, um, and I don't know if he goes, you know, far enough to be truly non-dualistic, but this distinction between eye, eye and now, um, because the, the, the vow part of it is, is, I think, potentially this or I mean, again, it's been several decades since I read, read him, but there's a, there's a, there's a way of beholding another person where you have the free attention to simply behold them, right? You're like, you're in no longer, you're no longer care what they think about you. You don't feel neuronically implicated by their gaze. You don't feel, you, you're, you're simply the space in which they're appearing, right? And so you're free, you know, like it's like there's just, there's no, and, and people can feel and so you're, you're, by definition, you're no longer self-conscious, right? And when it was, and this phrase self-consciousness really does get at this, what I'm calling the self, the, the, the, the elucary self as a kind of contraction. And you can, you can notice this for yourself. Just imagine what it's like to go from not being self-conscious to suddenly being self-conscious. And the, the, the, the, the, the proximate cause of this, you know, almost invariably is suddenly recognizing that somebody's looking at you. Right? So like you're in a Starbucks and you're, you know, you're alone and you're reading the newspaper or whatever it is. And this is, this is, it's, it's, it's, it's, it now sounds highly anachronistic. It's been three years since I've held a physical newspaper. I think, in a Starbucks. But you know, you're, you're, you're just mind your own business and you look up and you're just, you're seeing, you know, a room full of strangers. But then you notice that someone is just looking at you. You know, and so like that moment of eye contact, right? Suddenly that throws you back on yourself as a kind of suddenly you're the object in, in, in the world for that other person. That recognition is a, the tightening there, the kind of contraction there is a, is a, a, a further ramification of this, this feeling most of us have most of the time of being the center of experience. Like the, the place you feel like it's, it's like, you know, we're all walking around with a fist and in moments of self-consciousness, the fist gets really tight, you know, and that's, and that's, um, that's the thing that gets fully relaxed when you discover this, this, what I'm, you know, at various points called the nature of mind or the, the, the non-dual nature of consciousness is just that there is no center to this experience. And when you recognize no center, then even when your gaze is aimed at another person's gaze, there is no implication going back to the center because there is no center, right? And rather than that being an experience of weird detachment or confusion or, or it's, it's actually an experience of greater relationship because you're no longer, you're no longer defended, you're not defending anything over here. Like you're not, you're not braced against anything. You're just the space in which that person is showing up. And so it's a, it's an experience of being much more comfortable in, in the presence of another person, whatever your relationship because you're not contracting, right? And then when you do, when you have that, again, and this is meditation, right, this is meditation that is totally compatible with having a conversation with somebody. And then when you notice yourself contracting, like when you notice you're not doing, you're not meditating anymore, you're just, you're actually reacting, like they just said something or looked a certain way. And now you're cast back upon yourself in relationship to them. That becomes a kind of mindfulness alarm, right? Then you know that that, it becomes like the, the unsatisfactoriness of that psychologically becomes more and more salient, right? And it's, because that's not, one, that's not the way you want to be. And that's like it's the antithesis of being as comfortable as you were a moment ago. But two, it's, it's something you're doing unnecessarily, right? Like it's like you're, you're, you're like, again, you're making a fist when you don't have to make a fist, right? And it's, again, we can leave aside all those circumstances where it's appropriate to react to someone and, you know, I'm, you know, I'm into martial arts and self-defense. And yes, you're not supposed to be just this puddle of goo out in the world who can be just mistreated by people and, you know, never put up, you know, resistance. But it's psychologically, you know, even if, even if a state like anger or contraction is sometimes normative and appropriate, the question is, how long is it normative and appropriate for? Like, how long do you want to stay angry for? In my experience, these, you know, it's kind of classically negative emotions like anger and fear are appropriate as salience cues. You know, they, they orient you to, you know, an emergency or a potential emergency. But then in dealing with the emergency, they're almost never the state you want to be in. You know, it's like, you don't, you know, you don't, like it's, it's better to actually become in an emergency, you know? So, absolutely. I think that, um, and again, the language is, is insufficient to describe what, um, what you're telling us. But I think what comes to mind for me is this distinction between situational awareness and self-awareness. And we need both, but under conditions of emergency, true emergency, um, or motivated desire, we need to dial down the amount of self-awareness in order to be more effective within the situational awareness. But you said something very important in my lab. I've been working on, uh, fear like states for a long time. So I'm going to confess. I'm going to, um, rob this from you, but I'll credit you every time I describe it. Is that that the, that the, the fear of the threat detection state or set of events, uh, acts as a, as a flag, but is not meant to persist in the way that, uh, the flag went up. Right. If one is to be in their most adaptive state, actually, Jocco Willink and I were talking about this. He has, he talks a lot about detachment and open gaze things that my lab is interested in visual system and autonomic interaction. So white broadening the gaze literally brought us the time domain of thinking. You've come up with new solutions to complex problems and real time and so on and, um, and you're describing every day set of interactions where that could be very useful. And yet there seems to be something that about the way you describe meditation and what you've managed to arrive at and, um, what practitioners of meditation can arrive at, which is something more than that. Like it, it's not just about being effective or optimizing all the language we see thrown around a lot in the space that I live in these days, but, um, but something fundamentally more important about how to experience life and the self. This, yeah, this realization that what you thought was there was never really there. There, but that there are constraints that limit that. And so to try and fracture those just constraints one by one, would you say that meditation as a practice done for a few minutes each day or with the app that it's a, um, kind of a step function is a very non-linear in terms of people's progress. Um, you know, I'm certainly going to go, um, start doing more meditation based on this discussion truly, um, because anytime someone describes a, um, that there's kind of a myth that we've been living in, I, I become obsessed with the idea of dissolving that myth. That's a very seductive phrase. So thank you for using that one. There is no better marketing tool, which is I realize what you're not trying to do here, but that's through me to capture my, my, um, efforts. You tell me that there's a myth that I'm living in and that it can be dissolved and that opens up a better landscape. Um, yeah. What is the process like? Is it do some people make progress very quickly? Do some people, um, experience kind of step functions towards progress? What is the meditation practice look like over time? Um, do you still meditate or do you have you just threaded it through your, jujitsu, your writing, your daily life, your coffee, your time with your wife, et cetera? Yeah. So just to come back to, to, to talk about the myth for a second. So they, they're really what you just enunciated was a, kind of a second doorway into this whole project. So like the, the usual door is through the door of suffering, for lack of a better word. So I feel unhappy in a variety of ways and they get more sensitized to the mechanics of their own unhappiness and meditation is one of the things on the menu that is explicitly built as a remedy for, for unhappiness and, uh, and it is. And that's, you know, I think that's probably the most common path to this. But another path is just intellectual interest. I mean, just wanting to know what's real about the mind subjectively in a, in a first person way. And there's no contradiction between those two things. I'm, I'm motivated by both of them. But, um, you know, it's a totally valid doorway into this. Um, there are definitely step functions. I mean, I would say they're, they're at least two. I mean, the, and it, they really are articulated along the lines of, of, um, the framework I've been describing of, of, of dualistic and non-dualistic mindfulness, right? So in the beginning, you're going to start out, you know, 99.9 percent people will start out dualistically paying attention and, and noticing the difference between being distracted by thought and then being on the object of attention, whether it's the breath or sounds or whatever. And eventually that, you know, that opens up to all possible objects of attention, including thoughts and the, and there's still this fluctuation between being distracted and then being mindful of whatever. And the fact that it's opened to all possible objects, differentiates this type of practice from anything that is narrowly focused on one object like a mantra or a visualization or a site. You know, those are other paths of practice that are more concentration based, um, and interesting. But the, the benefit of mindfulness is that very quickly you realize it's by definition compatible with all possible experience because you're not artificially contracting your attention down to something, you're, you're just being aware of the next thing, a site, a sound, a taste, a thought. So the first step function is to very clearly experience the difference between being lost and thought and being clearly aware of any part of experience, including thought. And to notice the freedom that compared to psychological freedom that gives you, right? So you can like, you're, something's made you angry and now you're thinking about all the reasons why you should be angry and have every right to be angry and what you're going to tell that person when you see them. And then you notice your thinking, right? And you notice the connection between the thought and the anger, right? You like it? Like the minute spent lost in thought about what's making you angry is the thing that dragged through the physiology of anger, right? And the moment you notice that once you're mindful, once you can be mindful, you can notice thought as thought and how quickly that dissipates, that's just the language and the imagery just you couldn't hold on to it if you wanted to. And then you notice the physiology of the anger is just this, you kind of meaningless, you know, kind of inner incandescence that has its own half life and degrades very, very quickly when you're no longer thinking about the reasons why you should be angry, you can't hold on to the anger, the anger itself dissipates, right? And from the point of view of the one who's being mindful, this is tremendous relief. And at minimum, it's a degree of freedom. You can at that point decide, well, how long do I want to be angry for? Right? Is it useful to stay angry? Do I want to be angry for one minute, two minutes, five minutes, ten minutes? Or because before you have that capacity to be mindful, you're going to helplessly be as angry as you're going to be for as long as you're going to be that way, just based on the kind of the time course of you're thinking about it, brooding about it, telling your wife about it, you know, like, well, it's just going to be this conversation-based, misadventure in, you know, negative states of mind. And you are going to be the hostage of that for as long as you'll be the hostage of that. You have nothing you can do apart from just deciding to, you know, check out and watch Game of Thrones again for the third time, right? Like, it's just you can divert your attention to something else, which is, you know, sometimes a good thing to do. But mindfulness, even dualistic mindfulness gives you this capacity to just observe the mechanics of this and then get off the ride whenever you want. So that really is a step function. Like, first there was a time when there's a time before you could do that and then there's a time after which you can do that. The other step function is noticing that there is no one who is doing that. I mean, this is the non-duality, the selflessness, the centrallessness of awareness, right? The fact that there's no place from which the mindfulness is being aimed, but the fact that there's just this open condition in which everything is appearing, you know, thoughts included. And to have you, at that point, your mindfulness no longer becomes, it's no longer this dualistic effort to strategically pay attention to anything as opposed to being lost in thought. It's just what's left when thoughts, when the present recognized thought unravels, even before it unravels, what's recognized is you are simply identical to the condition in which everything is appearing. Again, this is not a, I'm not making a, a depock trope, chokbra-like metaphysical claim about the mind, you know, this is not, I'm not saying the mind isn't what the brain is doing. I'm not saying that you're recognizing the consciousness that gave birth to the universe. I'm not making any broad claims about metaphysics. I'm just talking about as a matter of experience. There is just this condition in which everything is appearing, right? And what you're calling your body, again, as a matter of experience, I'm not saying that we can't have third person conversations about, you know, physical bodies in a physical world. But as a matter of experience, the only body you're ever going to directly encounter as your own is an appearance in consciousness, right? So consciousness is not in your body. What you're calling your body is in consciousness, you know, visually, appropriately, it's like everything is just appearing in this condition. And again, you're not aiming, you're not, this is not a spotlight that you're aiming at the body or at, you know, there's just this condition in which everything, including anything you could call yourself, is appearing. And so, yeah, so that's the second step function is to recognize that this is already true. Consciousness is already without this thing you've been calling your ego, hoping to unravel it through meditation. Consciousness is not going to get any more selfless, any more centralist, any freer than it always already is recognized as such. And so that's the step function at that point is your mindfulness at that point, the thing you come back to when you're no longer distracted is that recognition again and again. And then it becomes, yeah, it becomes compatible with anything you would do. And so to answer your question, yes, I still practice, you know, formally, you know, sometimes, you know, frequently, but not, you know, I definitely miss days and I don't do it for, I mean, I don't rule out the possibility that I will go back on retreat at various times just to check in with that and see if that makes a difference, but, you know, I tend to sit for, I mean, I tend to, I've designed my life so that I can spend a lot of time meditating without having to be formally meditating. Like, so, you know, I'll go for a hike for two hours, right? And what I'm doing when I'm hiking is identical to what I'm doing when I'm quote meditating, you know, sitting in a chair, you know, doing nothing but meditate. So it's, yeah, I mean, I just, again, I'm very, I'm very interested in erasing the boundary between what people are calling meditation and the rest of life. And so that's in teaching these things, I tend to emphasize that from the beginning because I think it's, it's very easy to set up to get, to get gold by a bunch of assumptions that cause you to be very split in your sense of what your life is about. And like, I'm sort of banking my meditation over here because I'm meditating two hours a day diligently and, you know, this is going to be really good for me. And then over here is the rest of my life, which is not nearly as wise or as useful or as like, this is the stuff that is still the area of my problems. And I think it's useful to recognize you've got one, you've got one life, you know, and you've got this, this, this single condition of consciousness and its contents in every mode of life. And there's something to recognize about it. And you're always free to recognize that. You know, you're truly even in your dreams, right? I mean, it's just not, it never stops. So that's, that's what I tend to emphasize. So earlier you told us that meditation is not about changing the content of conscious experience. And in a different podcast that you were on, heard you say something to the effect of that normally we are in our daily experience. And unless we are trained in meditation, unless we've dissolved this illusion of the gap between actor and self and observer, that we require certain sensory events to create collisions within us and with the natural world that sort of, you know, blast us into a different mode of being. I want to use that as a way to frame up this idea that some things, such as psychedelics, but also a very long hike, a very long fast, you know, who knows a banquet, you know, different types of life experiences do exactly the opposite of what you're describing meditation does, which is that they actively change the content of our conscious experience so much so that we often remember those for the rest of our lives. Would you tell us why psychedelics can be useful and here I give the caveats that maybe you'll feel obligated to give as well, but this we're talking about you safely and responsibly age appropriate context appropriate, ideally with some clinical or other type of guidance, the gallery issues obeyed, etc. All that stated, it was psychedelics to me are an experience of altered perception, internal and external perception, altered space time relationship somewhat dreamlike. I think it was Alan Hobbson at Harvard for a long time talked about the relationship between psychedelic like states and dreamlike states because of this distortion of space time dimensionality. And I haven't experimented with them much. I've been part of a clinical trial three doses of MDMA, which certainly altered my, the quality of my conscious experience in ways that led to a lot of lasting and at least for me valuable learning. So what are your thoughts about psychedelics in terms of how they intersect with the discussion that we've been having and what utility do they play and recognition of the self or in other sorts of brain changes? Well, so yeah, let's just price in all those caveats that people can anticipate. These drugs are not without their risks and it's one problem is that we have this single term drugs or psychedelics, which names many different types of substances and they're not all the same. So like MDMA is not even technically a psychedelic. I think it has immense therapeutic value and it actually was my gateway drug to this whole area of concern. Confedermine pathogen, right? It's a sort of an emphetamine and a pathogen. Yeah, I mean, it's often called... Pathogen, yeah. It's an impathogen. Yeah, not pathogen. Yeah, no. No, no, pathogen. An impathogen or an antagonist, it's been called, but it doesn't tend to change perception in the way that classic psychedelics do. And it's also serotonergic, but it's not... It has to be in some part differently. So then me, even LSD and psilocybin, which are much more similar in classic psychedelics, both are also serotonergic, but they're not merely so. And they're also different. And the higher dose you take of these drugs and lower doses, everything can kind of seem the same. At higher doses, they begin to diverge. We can talk about the pharmacology if you wanted to, but I would just say that for many of us, and certainly for me, psychedelics were indispensable in the beginning in proving to me that this was... The first person interrogation of the mind was worth doing, because I was somebody who, you know, age 17 or 18 before I had any real experience with MDMA or LSD or psilocybin. If you had taught me how to meditate at that point, I think I would have just bounced off the whole project. I think my mind was... I was just... I was so cerebral in my... my engagement with anything. Any of the religious and spiritual traditions that have given us most of our meditation talk, you know, that I think I just would have... I know many of these people. Like, I have tried to teach Richard Dawkins to meditate and Daniel Dennett to meditate. I've ambushed them with meditation and both in a group setting and one-on-one, not Dan, but Richard, I ambushed on my own podcast with a guided meditation. And he just, you know, from his... He closes his eyes, he looks inside, and there's nothing of interest to see, right? Like it's just... It's like this... He doesn't have the conceptual interest in him that would cause him to persist long enough to find out that there's a there-there, right? Now this is not a problem with LSD or psilocybin or MDMA. I know that if I gave him 100 micrograms of LSD or 5 grams of mushrooms or, you know, 25 milligrams of psilocybin, that's probably not the analogous dosage to the 5 grams of mushrooms. 5 grams of mushrooms would be more than that. I forget what it is of MDMA, maybe 120 milligrams. I think the map's dose is... Which is the one that's under clinical trials, is 125 milligrams with an option of a 75 milligrams bruster. Right, right, funny, I remember. Yes, it's strange. The facts that come to hands. But there's just no possibility that nothing's going to happen. Right now, something with a psychedelic, with MDMA, most people tend to have certainly under any kind of guidance, tend to have a very positive, you know, pro-social experience. But with a psychedelic, you might have a somewhat terrifying experience if you have, quote, a bad trip. And I've certainly had those experiences on LSD and to some of the rinse, psilocybin. But the prospect that nothing is going to happen is just a million, nearly a million cases out of a million, just not in the cards. I mean, just neurophysiologically, something's going to happen with the requisite dose of one of these drugs. And if that thing that happens is psychologically at all normative and pleasant and interesting and valuable, which it is so much of the time, and certainly under the appropriate, you know, set and setting and guidance, it can be, you know, a lot of the time for, you know, virtually everybody. Again, there are caveats. If you're prone, if you think you have, you know, a proclivity for schizophrenia or, you know, bipolar disorder, this is almost certainly not for you, you know, and anyone doing the studies at Johns Hopkins for therapeutic effects of any of these drugs, they're ruling out people with, you know, first degree relatives with any of these clinical conditions. But so for somebody like me at 18 who didn't know that this was an area of not only interest, but would have been the center of gravity for the rest of his life, if only he could pay attention clearly enough to see that it could be, right? I was someone who very likely, again, I don't know, I don't have the counterfactual in hand, I don't know what would have happened if someone had forced me to meditate for an hour at that point. But I know I wasn't interested in it until I took MDMA. I know I wasn't having these kinds of experiences spontaneously that showed me that there was an inner landscape that was worth exploring. I was a very hard-headed skeptic who was very interested in lots of things, but there was no alternative to me just thinking more about those things, right? I mean, the idea that there's some other way of grasping cognitively at the interesting parts of the world beyond thinking about the world, right? That just wouldn't have computed for me at all, right? So I literally had no one ever gave me a book to read or I don't know. The noun meditation very likely meant absolutely nothing to me before I took my first dose of, in this case, it was MDMA. So what the drug experience did for me is it just proved. So one of the limitations of a drug is that obviously no matter how good the experience, the drug wears off and then you're back in more or less your usual form, and now you have a memory of the experience. And it can be a fairly dim memory. I mean, some of these experiences are so discontinuous with normal waking consciousness that it can be like trying to remember a dream that just degrades, of course, of seconds. And then it could have been the most intense dream you've ever had. And for whatever reason, you can barely get a purchase on what it was about. And there's some psychedelic experiences that are analogous to that. But for most people, most of the time, there's a residue of this experience. And with something like MDMA, they can be quite vivid. Where you recognize, okay, there was a way of being that is quite different than what I'm tendin' to access by default. And it is different in ways that are just obviously better and psychologically more healthy. I mean, it's possible to be healthy psychologically in a way that I never imagined. And then when you link it up to the traditional literature around any of this stuff, again, so much of it is shot through with superstition and other worldliness of religion. And as you know, and I think you're listening, listeners probably know I've spent a lot of time criticizing all that. But there is a baby in the bathwater to all of that, right? It's not that somebody like Jesus or the Buddha or any of the matriarchs and patriarchs of the world's religions, it's not that they were all conscious frauds or temporal lobe epileptics. Or there's a pathological lens that you can put on top of all that. But once you have one of these experiences on psychedelics or on a drug like MDMA, you know that there's a there-there. You know that unconditional love is a possibility, right? You know that feeling truly one with nature, right? I mean, just so one with nature that you could spend 10 hours in front of a tree and find that to be the most rewarding experience of your life, right? That's a possible state of consciousness. Now, it may not be the state of consciousness you want all the time. You know, you don't want to be the crazy guy by the tree, you know, who can't have a conversation about anything else. But once you have one of these experiences, you recognize, okay, there's some reason why I'm not having the beatific vision right now. And I can't even figure out how to aim my attention so as to have anything like it. And that's a problem, right? Because it's available, right? And it's the best, you know, it is among the best things that has ever happened to me, right? And I can just only dimly remember what that was like. So how do I get back there on some level? And that's so that invites, again, a logic of changes, a logic of seeking changes in the contents of consciousness, which sets someone up for this protracted or seemingly protracted and fairly frustrating search to, you know, game their nervous system so as to have those kinds of experiences more and more. And again, it's not that that's in principle fruitless, but it is from the point of view of the core insight of, you know, the core wisdom of, you know, what I would take from a tradition like Buddhism, which is not, you know, it's not the only tradition that has given voice to this, but it's, I would argue, it's given it, you voiced it the most in the most articulate way. Again, leaving aside any of the superstition and other worldliness and miracles that, you know, we don't have to talk about at the moment. And you certainly don't need to endorse in order to be interested in this stuff. And so that's the bifurcation between all of the utility of psychedelics and what I'm talking about under the rubric of meditation is at this point of, okay, once you realize there's a there there, what do you do and what's the logic by which you're led to do it? And it's possible with like, if your only framework is the good experiences, the good fields you had on, on whatever drug it was, and a further discussion of like what that path of change is, you know, can look like and that can come in a religious context, it can come in just a purely psychedelic context or, you know, some combination of the two, I think you can be misled to, you can just be, you can be misled to just seek lots of peak experiences. You're just trying to string together a lot of peak experiences, hoping they're going to change you, every one of which by definition is going to be impermanent, right? I mean, it's first it wasn't there, then it's there and then it's no longer there and then you've got a memory of it, right? The, what I think it's, what everyone really wants, whether they know it or not and they're right to want is a type of freedom that is compatible with even ordinary states of consciousness, which can ride along with them into extraordinary states of consciousness. I mean, so what I hadn't done psychedelics for 25 years, because I mean, again, they were super useful for me in the beginning, then I discovered meditation on the basis of those experiences, got really into meditation and realized, okay, this is a much more, this really is, you know, conceptually this makes much more sense to me, this is delivering the goods, you know, in terms of my experience, there's no need to keep having these, you know, seeking these peak experiences with drugs, but it had been, you know, 25 years since I had done that and there was this resurgence in research on psychedelics and I was being asked about psychedelics and I was talking about their utility for me, but again, these were distant memories and so I, and there was also one type of psychedelic experience. I was, I was aware that I had never had, I had never done a high dose of mushrooms, blindfolded, you know, like every, every mushroom trip I'd ever had, I'd been out in nature and interacting with, you know, you know, it's, it's been a very transformed sensory experience of the world and of other people, but I'd never done it alone, blindfolded, just purely, you know, inwardly directed and at a high dosage, I'd done high doses of LSD, but not mushrooms. So I did that, you know, and it was very useful and I spoke about it on my podcast and there's actually this, I think if you search Sam Harris mushroom trip on YouTube, you get the, the 19 minute version of that, you know, my describing that trip. It was incredibly useful and, but it was, what was doubly useful was my mindfulness training in the context of that explosion of the synesthesia. I mean, it was, it was such an overwhelmingly strong experience and there were so many moments where it could have gone one way or the other based on my sense of just, okay, I'm going to try to resist this, you know, it was like it was, it was, it was, it was, in truth, irresistible because it was just so much, but there were moments where I was aware of, okay, this is like letting go of self, you know, in this context is, is the thing that is going to, you know, turn, to make the difference between heaven and hell here, you know, and because there's, there are experiences that are so extreme that you can't even tell if it's agony or ecstasy, it's just, it's just, everything has turned up to 11, right? And the difference between the two is like, you know, the tipping point, it's just, it's not, it really is kind of a high wire act in some sense, you know, you can just fall to one side or the other and, yeah, so what I think people want is, they certainly want to be able to extract from the psychedelic experience wisdom that is applicable to ordinary states of consciousness. It's like, what is the thing you can realize in a moment of having a conversation with your child that isn't distracting you from that relationship? It's not a memory of when the world dissolved or, you know, when you were indistinguishable from the sky, but it's just a way of, a way of having free attention and unconditional love in this, you know, totally ordinary and potentially chaotic human experience, you know, which can be psychologically fraught and you can meet, you know, iterations of yourself that you don't like that are not equipping you to be the best possible person in that relationship. And what we want to do is cut through all of that and actually, you know, be in love with our lives and with the people in our lives more and more of the time. And that's, there's, I'm not saying that's the psyche, you know, that repeated psychedelic journeys aren't, can't be integral to that project, but you know that the project can't be being high all the time, right? So whatever is extractable from that, the occasional, you know, psychedelic trip has got to be mapable into ordinary waking consciousness. And the point of contact, the real point of contact does kind of run through this, you know, what I've been calling the illusion of the self. And again, it is that part is discoverable without any changes in contents, right? So you don't have to suddenly feel the energy of your body be rush out and be continuous with the, you know, the ocean of energy that is not your body, right? Like that's an experience that's there to be had, right? I mean, there's no doubt. But this, the truth is, I mean, just looking at this cup is just as formless and as mysterious as that, right? When it's seen in the right way. And that's, and that's, that's what, you know, meditation encourages to, you know, want to recognize. Why? Share the experience that MDMA significantly altered my perception of what's possible in terms of an emotional stance towards self and others, including animals, right? Something that runs very deep for me and that I had been kind of actively suppressing in anticipation of having put my dog down. But also, you know, I'm not, I don't know how to frame it except to say, you know, my lab did animal research for years and I was always very conflicted about it. Yeah. Because I love animals and yet I wanted to understand the brain and we need to work on animal brains. And we rodents or what? Yeah, I'll be very direct about this my lab work. I've worked on many species. I've worked on mice and rats. I've worked on, it's middly I've worked on, I've done some cat experiments. I've worked on large non human primates, including macaques. I no longer work on any of those species. I've worked on cuddlefish, saffelopods, a discussion for another time. Brilliant little creatures, maybe, maybe as smart as us or who knows. Maybe smarter. And now I work on humans because I couldn't reconcile the challenge inside me which was my love of animals and working on them. I just couldn't do it any longer. And MDMA didn't set that transition. That transition actually had been set a lot earlier. And it was something I really grappled with. It didn't keep me up at night but it was always in the back of my mind. In any event, I hope what we discovered was worthwhile but this is a, that's a bigger debate. And I have strong feelings about this and maybe it's a topic for another podcast. But I'm very happy that now I work on humans and they can tell me if they want to be part of the experiment or not. And I trust them and I trust their answers. I think that MDMA in this role is an impathogen. I think really did set an understanding of what's real and true. So I think truths like that become, they don't, I felt that they didn't hit me square in the face. Could the feeling behind the conflict made itself evident and what to do about it made itself evident? So I suppose MDMA did, did assist the transition to purely human research as opposed to animal research. The other thing that I noticed it is it made it not scary to confront things that were scary to confront in my conscious life. And I could think about things in my conscious life but it made, you know, it brought them close in a way that I could get closer and closer to the flame and then gain some understanding. I've still amazed at how answers arrive both during the session and then the weeks and months that follow. If one puts the attention to it, I think that's why it's important to have a guide of some sword or to have some pseudo structure because otherwise one can get attached to the sounds in the room and just, and there's probably meaning there, but I wanted to do some deeper work. I have not had experience with psilocybin at least not since my youth and I don't recommend young people do it. I regret doing LSD in psilocybin as a young person. I don't say that for politically correct reasons or liability reasons. I just think my mind was not developed. But I'm intrigued by something. So here's the question. How is it that psilocybin in particular and hydro psilocybin and the ego dissolution that people talk about on psilocybin? How do you think that lines up with some of the experiences that you've been describing for a adequate meditation practice? That's something that I did not experience on MDMA. In fact, if anything, I experienced for the first time what really feeling like an isolated container was and the difference in how empathy and being bounded, having in other words, good boundaries and empathy could be symbiotic. I experienced that for the first time there. And I do think that there is learning inside of these states that translates into everyday life when one is not on these states. And the last thing I'll say is no, I don't feel the impulse to go and do 20 more MDMA sessions. I think that the three as part of this study were very effective for me. And as they say, if you hear the calling again, you might do it. But I'm very curious about psilocybin in particular and this notion of ego dissolution because we've been talking about the self. So there are different ways in which the sense of self can be eroded or expanded or there's lots of experiences that can still have a kind of center to them, but be very novel and transformational. One can reify those as a kind of goal state. And there's a concept in Buddhism that I think is useful. It doesn't translate well to English or it can set up kind of false associations in English that are unfortunate. But there's a concept of emptiness in Buddhism which sounds again kind of gray and disparate in English. It's a cognate terms are things like unconditioned, unconstrained, open, centralists. So there's a, and that is, when I'm talking about non-duality, when I'm talking about the loss of a sense of subject and then what's left in Buddhism, they would often describe what's left as emptiness. But emptiness is not a something. It's not a, and it's, importantly, it's not the same thing as unity. So it's not a oneness because it's what's, what's, what's left when the center drops out of experience, it's not like you are suddenly merged with the cup. But now granted, this is where psilocybin and other psychedelics can give a false impression of, I think, what the goal is, you can have kind, seeming merging experience, you can have unity experiences on psychedelics which can be quite powerful, especially with nature, with other people and with nature where you can just feel like the energy of your body becomes incredibly vivid and powerful. It's like you're just, everything is just buzzing with life energy. And then when you touch another person's hand or you touch a tree, there can be this sort of continuity of energy which can be this overwhelming experience. And again, this is a, just a 20 megaton change in the contents of consciousness, right? It's like this is a non-ordinary state of consciousness, but like, this is a, give some indication of what, of how this happens. When I, back in the day, when I was in my 20s and I was experimenting with, with, this was LSD, but some friends and I decided we had this brilliant idea, we would, we would camp above mere woods and then take some LSD, a dawn and then walk down, you know, like a mile, I think from the campsite into the, into the actual proper grove of trees and, you know, commune with the giant redwoods, the tallest trees on earth. And so we dropped the acid at dawn and we start walking, but the acid came on, you know, almost immediately. And we didn't get, I mean, we got nowhere near the woods and we got stopped by a tree that was just like an ordinary, you know, 20 foot oak tree, like the most boring tree in the world. And that tree absorbed like the next six hours of our, of our conscious attention because it was just, you know, it was the tree of life. I mean, it was, it could be, it could be no better tree. So these, we're talking about non-ordinary states of consciousness, wherein a, a merging with life and with, with the world is possible. And that is a, so I'm not, I'm not saying that kind of experience isn't possible, but there's a sort of expanded self reification. It is a kind of ego disillusion, but there's a kind of egoity that sort of goes along for the ride as well or can go along for the ride. And the real insight into emptiness, the real sort of centralist, you know, center of the bullseye, is a recognition that, that in some ways equalizes all experiences. And again, it's, it's just as available now in the, this ordinary, you know, podcasting experience as it is when you're merging hands on with an oak tree and, you know, on, you know, 400 micrograms of acid. And this is, you know, the, this is the whole universe. And so it's, it's the, it's the, equality of those two experiences that, that, that, this concept of emptiness captures, which a concept of oneness doesn't quite capture. Because oneness is really this, this peak experience of being dragged out of your, you know, your somethingness into a much bigger somethingness, right? Emptiness is just no center, right? And then everything is in its own place, right? There's still sites and sounds and sensations and thoughts and feelings, but there's just, there's no, there's no center and there's no clinging to anything. There's no clinging to identity. There's no clinging to the good stuff. There's no, there's no resistance to the bad stuff. There's no, so pleasant and unpleasant get sort of strangely equalized. And there's this very, it's, it's very expansive and it, and most importantly, it doesn't block anything. So yeah, if, for whatever reason, if your nervous system is set up to have the, oh my god, I'm now merging with the tree experience, that's, that's possible from the state of no center, right? And, and, and on my, you know, that my reason, now not so reason three years ago, is right before COVID, but my last, you know, big psychedelic experience, you know, there was, I was very much experiencing that, whereas, you know, insofar as I, you know, at the peak, there was no meat or remember any of, any of this stuff, but, you know, insofar as I could experiment with, is this really different from anything else? You know, there is a kind of equalizing to the, the emptiness recognition, even in the, in the presence of a completely transformed neurophysiology. And, and so that's, again, there's, there's a point of contact. I mean, the, the real point of contact between psychedelics and meditation for me is, but for my experiences on psychedelics, there's, I don't think there's just no way I would have had the free attention to be interested in, in the, in the project at all. And, there are other aspects of the project. It's not just having this insight into selflessness. It's, it's all of the ethical ramifications of that. It's just like, what kind of person do you want to be? What are your values? What's, what, what is a good life altogether when you are talking about relationships and, you know, political engagement and the changes you can make in the world or not make or it's just, you know, what kind of person do you want to be? There's, there's, there's a much larger consideration. And I mean, as you discovered, you know, an experience on MDMA can, really, both both expand your model of what is possible and what is desirable, what is normative. I mean, just what kind of, you know, what kind of self do you want to be in the world? And it can also help you cut through things that are inhibiting. You, you're actualizing any of those possibilities in ordinary, waking consciousness. I've certainly found that to be the case. I mean, you raise a really important point, which is that once these learnings take place, these understanding take place inside of psychedelic journeys and I do believe they translate to neuroplasticity. I do want to highlight the point for people. Often times people say, you know, this mushroom or this psychedelic, it opens plasticity, but of course, plasticity has to be directed. Some place plasticity is just a process like walking or anything else underlying neural process. And I think it's impossible for me to understand what compartments of my life have been impacted by these 3MDMA sessions. But I, in some ways, I wonder whether or not not just the transition away from animal research, but also a deeper realization of the love for learning and sharing information. You know, I won't go so far as to say this podcast is happening because of that particular session. But these things, they play out into multiple domains of the self. And I do think that the key features that feel most important to me to mention are that it really identified true loves, things that I truly love and made me less cautious about feeling how intense those loves really are and then also lower the inhibition point of exploring like, well, what would that mean? Right. You know, and one of the reasons I bring this up and why I think it's so important that you mentioned, you know, some issues around politics and ethics and many things have displayed out from your exploration of psychedelic meditation, neuroscience, philosophy, you know, all the things that are you. And of course, that's only a subset is that so much of what I hear and see, so much of what I hear and see in the kind of self-help space contradicts itself and leads back to the origin without a lot of progress. And for instance, we hear, you know, absence makes the heart grow fonder, but then out of sight out of mind, you hear about radical acceptance, but then what if it's radical acceptance of non-acceptance? Right. I mean, there are some experiences and people for which I radically accept the fact that I want nothing to do with them. And is that some, am I supposed to transcend that? So these are the questions I think that keep a lot of people from exploring things like meditation because they feel like, well, is the idea to just be okay with everything? Is radical acceptance just like, well, just, you know, bulldoze me with it with things even if they're, you know, and my goal is to somehow surpass the idea that they're harmful. And I don't think that's actually the way any of this stuff is supposed to work, although I don't claim to be the authority on it either. I, you know, I think notions of radical acceptance and radical honesty and any number of different sayings that one can find out there are really the most salient beacons and guides that most people have in order to try and navigate tough areas in their life, including the relationship to self but others and political orientations. And so I feel like almost all those things can be used to anchor down in a stance that may or may not be informed or to open up to ideas. And so I think the, none of this can really be solved in a single practice it sounds like, but it does seem to me that based on what you've told us today is that only through a, a deep understanding of the self as it really is, as opposed to the solution that you framed up, could we actually arrive at some answers about what's actually right for each and every one of us? Yeah. I mean, there's one generic answer that I think can be extracted both from psychedelics and from meditation and just from just thinking more clearly about the nature of our lives. And it's to become more process oriented and to be more and more sensitive to the, the moral, the mirage like character of achieving our goals. Right now, I'm not against achieving goals. I have a lot of goals. I'm very busy. There are lots of things I want to get done. And I'm a satisfied as anyone to finish a project. But if you look at the time course of all of that fulfillment and there are a few lessons that everyone I think has to draw, one is most of your life is spent in the process. Right? Like the moment at which the goal is fully conquered, that is just, I mean, that has a, you know, it's a tiny duration and it has a very short half life. And you're, the moment you arrive at it, it begins to recede because in the meantime, we have all these other goals that have appeared on the horizon, you've got people asking what you're going to do next. And you, in some sense, if you're, if you're focused on goals, you really, you can never arrive. Right? And I think what we're, what we're looking, we're all looking for in life, you know, whether we're ever thinking about taking psychedelics or, or practicing something like meditation, we're looking for good enough reasons to let our attention fully rest in the present. Right? Now, like, so, I mean, that, that is the logic of success. Like the sense, like I've got all these things I want to do. If I could just get rich enough or fit enough or, you know, dial in my sleep well enough or, you know, improve my life in all these ways, get the right relationship, wouldn't be great to be married. You know, I, I want to start a family. I want all of these, these things, why do I want these things? Right? I want these things because I'm telling myself, this is, it's not that all of those things are wonderful, right? I'm not, I'm not discounting those relative forms of happiness or sources of happiness, because it's all completely valid to, it's completely valid to want those things. But in the present, it's, for one thing is absolutely clear. It's possible to be miserable in the presence of all of those things, right? And you can add, you can add great wealth and fame and everything on top of that. It's possible, it's possible to be absolutely miserable having everything anyone could seemingly want, right? You just have to open a newspaper to see people living out that predicament, right? You know, spectacularly wealthy, famous, healthy, successful people who could do anything they want in their, in life, apparently. And yet they're doing this thing that is completely dysfunctional and making them needlessly miserable. I won't name names. There are enough of them. Some people come to mind at the moment. So there is a clear dissociation between having everything and happiness that's possible. And it's also possible to have very little, you know, and almost nothing and to be quite happy. I mean, you might not have met these people, but you know, I have met people who have spent, you know, 10 years alone in a cave, right? And they come out of that cave not floorly neurotic or psychotic. They come out of that cave beaming with compassion and joy. And I mean, it's like they've been taking MDMA for 10 years, essentially, and they come out of the cave and now they're going to talk about it, right? So and I'm not necessarily recommending that project anyone, but I'm just saying that is, that is a psychological possibility. So you have a double dissociation here, whether you can have everything and be miserable, you can have nothing and be beaming with, with happiness. So what is it that we actually want in all of our seeking to arrange the props in our lives and our, and our, and the story to have a convincing enough story to tell about ourselves that we're doing the right thing? What are, what is all of that effort predicated on? Is predicated on this desire and this expectation that if we could get all of this stuff in the right place and not have anything terrifying to worry about, right? Everyone we love is healthy for the moment, right? And we're healthy and that's, we've got something to look forward to on the weekend and there's not some, there's not a, you know, plumbing leak in the house that we have to immediately respond to and we like our house and, you know, our career is going fine and there's something good to watch on Netflix and we have all of it, right? Now can we just actually give up the war, right? And can we, can we fully locate our, our sense of well-being in the present moment? Is it, can we relax the impulse to brood about the past or think anxiously about the future for long enough to discover that all of this here is enough, right? Because our life, our life is, we have this finite resource of, I mean, we absolutely have the finite resource of time, but within this, the finite resource, the continuum of time, we have the even more precious resource of free attention that is, that can find our, our, our fulfillment in the present, right? And because even if we're, even if we're guarding our time to do the things that are most important to us, we can spend all of that time regretting the past or, you know, anxiously expecting the future and telling it to just balancing between past and future in our thinking about ourselves and our lives and basically just dancing over the present and never making contact with it, right? So what we, I think what we want is a circumstance where attention can be located in the present in a way that's truly fulfilling and unless you have had some kind of radical insight that allows you to do that on demand, you are in some sense hostage to the circumstances of your life to do that for you. You're, you're constantly trying to, to engineer a state of the world that will propagate back on a state of self that will make the, the present moment good enough. And what meditation does and psychedelics to some degree does this, but meditation very directly does this, it reverses the causality and, and, and lets you actually change, change state such that you can be fulfilled before anything happens, right? Nothing, you're, you're happiness is no longer predicated on the next good thing happening. You can be in the presence of the next good or bad thing already being fulfilled and already being at peace, you know, I mean, there's a, there's a, I think they're misleading nouns. We can, we can throw it at what is left there, but it is, you know, you know, tranquility, peace, freedom, lack of contraction, lack of conflict. I mean, like all of that is a, it can be more and more of a default. And all of that is also compatible with deciding, you know, yeah, why not get in shape? Why not engage this project? Why not, you know, change your career? I mean, it's not, it's not that you need to be somebody who, who accept, I mean, to, to your point, you can notice all of these non-optimal things because no matter how much you meditate, you know, you're, you're very likely going to spend a lot of your time, still lost in thought, still identified with it and still wanting, still caring about the difference between dysfunction and normativity in your life, right? And the question is, what can you, what can you locate when, the question, it's really, it's like, how much can you puncture that seeking happiness project with the recognition that you're already free? Right? I mean, that is, that's what, that's what meditation makes possible. You can keep just a thousand times a day, letting some daylight into this search space. And so it's, but it is still compatible. Like you can, I mean, working out is a great frame in which to look at this because, I mean, in working out when you're, when you, when you really work out, you know, I'm thinking, you know, mostly, I mean, it's really anything, but it's, you know, resistance training or cardio or something like your Jitsu, you're, you're intentionally putting yourself in classically unpleasant circumstances physiologically. I mean, so if you, if you were, you know, if you imagine what it's like to do anything to failure, right? If you just check in on what, on what that is like at the level of sensation, I mean, that is, is, is basically a matter, it feels like a medical emergency, right? I mean, like that, if you were having that experience for some other reason, like if you woke up in the middle of the night and felt what it feels like to be deadlifting, you know, on your 10th rep on a set where you're going to, you know, you would fail at 11, right? But that is just, you know, that's an emergency. But because you understand what you're doing in the gym and you've sorted out and like it's actually, it's actually something you like doing, right? And you can, you can get a real dopamine, you know, hit from, from doing it. That what you're doing, when you're doing that is you're, you're owning kind of a, like you're, you're actually transforming a, a classically negative experience into something that's in almost intrinsically positive, right? Certainly the net on it is positive. You can do that and when, and being able to do that is more and more the experience of being actually at peace, even while exerting a really intense effort in, in one direction. So you can be straining and I'm sure physiologically showing a lot of stress. I mean, I'm sure that, you know, cortisol is up and like, you know, blood pressure is up. Heart rate is certainly up. So it's like, as far as the body is concerned, it's, stress as far as the eye can see, but you really can be deeply equanimous in it, peace, because, again, because of the frame around it, because of the concepts attached to it, because you know what you're doing, you know why it's happening and you want it. So that, that's an attitude you can bring into other stressful things that take effort to accomplish. So it's not, it's not that you just need to be a pushover when you learn how to meditate or when you take MBMA or you do any, you work on yourself in any of these ways, but what I think you, I think you want to find is you want to find your point of rest in the midst of any struggle. I would say that the, certainly MBMA, but, and again, I have less experience with meditation and, but they really, I think, put us ultimately in positions of what can only refer to as real strength. You can make what, before seemed like impossible decisions or even concepts or emotional states to even think about for any period of time without deliberately distracting or avoiding in some other way and be able to lean into those with, with open eyes. And I think that's, to me, that's my definition of strength. I don't know what other people consider, but there's definitely something real there in each case. This may seem like a divergence, but I and many other people are very curious about a recent decision that you made, which was to close your account on Twitter. You still have an Instagram account, I noticed. Yeah. But I mean, my team manages that. I've never, I love friendly over it. I've been there a lot longer. I've never even seen it. So it's pretty good actually. Can you imagine what would happen if you did a deep hatred. They're doing a good job with it. But your decision to close your account on Twitter, I think, grabbed a lot of eyes and ears. And there's a lot of questions about why it was a very large account. It correlated with a number of things that for the outsider, people might be wondering about new leadership, new people who had been booted off, brought back on or at least invited back on. And so on. You are certainly not obligated to explain your behavior to me or anybody else for that matter. But I'm curious if you might share with us what the motivation was for taking the account down and how you feel in the absence of, I mean, your thumbs presumably are freed up to do other things. Yeah. I was getting like an arthritic right thumb. I think. Yeah. I think if you don't mind sharing, I think there's a lot of curiosity about you and your routines. You've been very generous in sharing that, your knowledge. But also what makes you take, what motivates pretty big decisions like that. It wasn't a major platform for you. Yeah. It was the only social media platform I've ever engaged. Like you said, I have an Instagram, I have a Facebook account. I never use those as platforms. I've never on them. I've never followed people. And all the posting has just come from, it's just marketing from my team. Twitter was me, I mean, for better or worse. And I began to feel more and more for worse. It was interesting because it was very, I've talked about it a lot on my podcast, about just my love, hate relationship with Twitter over the years. Many good things came to me from Twitter. And I was following a lot of smart people. And it had become my newsfeed and my first point of contact with information each day. And I was really attached to it just for that reason, just as a consumer of content. And then it was also a place where I genuinely wanted to communicate with people and react to things. And I would see some article that I thought was great. And I would signal boost it to my, the people following me on Twitter. And that was rewarding. And I was, I could literally help people on Twitter. I mean, there were people who I've raised lots of money for on Twitter, just by signal boosting their GoFundMe's. And so I was engaged in a way that seemed productive. But I was always worried that it was producing needless conflict for me and was giving me a signal in my life that I was being lured into, respond into, and taken seriously, that was out of proportion to its representation of any opinion or set of opinions that I should be taking seriously. So I was noticing that, again, this evolved over years. I mean, this long before, long predated recent changes to Twitter. But I was noticing that many of the worst things that had happened for me professionally were first born on Twitter. I mean, just like, you know, some conflict I got into with somebody or something that I felt like I needed to podcast about in response to on Twitter. It's just so much of it. It's either, it's Genesis was Twitter or it's the further spin of it that became truly unpleasant and dysfunctional happened on Twitter. Like it was just Twitter was part of the story when it was got really bad. And I've had, you know, vacations that have gone sideways just because I got on Twitter and said something and then I had to produce a controversy that I had to respond to and then I had to do a podcast about that and just, and it was just, okay, this is a mess. Right? And so at that point, you know, I have friends who, you know, also had big Twitter platforms who would say, you know, why are you, you know, why are you responding to anything on Twitter? Just tweet and ghost, you know, just due to having, you know, like Joe Rogan sat me down and tried to get, you know, give me a talk into it as to Bill Moore. And both of them engaged Twitter in that way. I mean, they, I think they basically never look at their ad mentions. They never see what's coming back at them. They just, you know, they use it effectively the way I use or don't even use Instagram or Facebook. I don't even see what's going out there in my name. And so I could essentially do that for myself on Twitter, presumably. And I did that for some periods of time, but then I would continually decide, okay, now it's all balanced again. Maybe I can just communicate here because it was very tempting for me to communicate with people because I would see somebody, you know, clearly misunderstanding something I had said on my podcast. And I think, it's like, why not clarify this misunderstanding, right? And my efforts to do that almost invariably produced a, I mean, sometimes it was a kind of meandering process of discovery. But often it was just kind of a stark confrontation with what appeared to me to be just lunacy and malevolence on a scale that I never encounter elsewhere in my life. Like I never meet these people in life, right? And yet I was meeting these people by the tens of thousands on Twitter. And so the thing that began to worry me about it, and again, I understand that people have the opposite experience on Twitter. Depending on what you're putting out and what you're, you know, the kinds of topics you're touching, you could have just nothing but love coming back at you on Twitter, right? But because I'm very, essentially in the center politically, and because I'm, you know, this is now on my podcast, this is not in the waking up app, I'm often criticizing the far left and criticizing the far right. I'm basically pissing off everyone some of the time, right? And it's very different. If you're only criticizing the left, you hate, no doubt you get hate from the left, but you have all the people on the right who just reflexively and tribally are expressing their solidarity for you, right? And who are dunking on your enemies for you and, you know, when your enemies come out of the woodwork. And if you're only criticizing the right, you get a lot of pain from the right, but you've got the people on the left who are tribally identified with the left who are just going to reflexively defend you. If you're in the center criticizing the left, as hard as anyone on the right ever criticized the left, criticized the left, and you're also criticizing the right as hard as anyone on the left, criticized the right. You're getting hate from both sides all the time, and no one is reflexively and tribally defending you because you pissed them off last time. You're like, you might be getting hate from the left now, and the people on the right agree with you, but they can't forget the thing you said about Trump on that podcast, you know, two podcasts ago. So they're not going to defend you. And so what I basically created hell for myself on Twitter because it was, I just, you know, it was just a theater of, it was just pure cacophony most of the time. And what I was seeing was, I mean, there's no way there's this many psychopaths in the world, but I was seeing psychopaths everywhere. I was seeing like the most malicious dishonesty and, you know, just goalposts moving and hypocrisy and, I mean, it was just, I mean, some of it's trolling and some of it's real confusion and some of it is psychopathy, but it's like, it was so dark that I worried that it was actually giving me a very negative and sticky view of humanity that was, I mean, one, it was, you know, I think it isn't an inaccurate, but two, I, it was, it was something I was returning to so much because again, I was checking Twitter, you know, at least a dozen times a day. And I'm sure there was some days where I checked it a hundred times a day. I mean, it was, it was, again, it was my main source of information, I was constantly reading articles and, and then putting my own stuff out that it became this kind of funhouse mirror in which I was looking at the, the most grotesque side of, of humanity and feeling, you know, implicated in, in ways that were important, important because it was just, it was reputationally important or seemed to be important. I know a lot of these people, it's not, these weren't just faceless trolls, these are, these are people with whom I have had relationships and in some cases, friendships who, because of what, you know, largely Trump and COVID did to our political landscape in the last, you know, half a dozen years, we're beginning to act in ways that, that seemed, you know, starkly dishonest and, you know, crazy making to me. So I was just noticing that I was forming a view of people who I actually have had dinner with that was way more negative based on their Twitter behavior than I think would ever be justified by any way they would behave in life with me, you know, I mean, that's like, never, I was never going to have a face to face encounter with any of these people that was this malicious and dishonest and gaslighting and weird, right, as, as, what was happening hourly on Twitter, right. And so I just began to become more sensitive to what this was, you know, just the residue of all of this in my life and how, and just how often the worst thing that, the worst thing about me in my relationship with the people in my life, you know, they're just talking to my wife or my kids was just the fact that I had been on Twitter at some point in the, you know, previously in the, the previous hour and there was some residue of that, you know, if, you know, in my interaction with them, you know, it's like, what, you know, what do you stress out about? What do you annoyed about? What do you pissed off about? You know, what can't you get out of your head? What is the thing that you now feel like you need to spend the next week of your life focused on because it went so sideways for you? All of that was Twitter, you know, literally 100% of that was Twitter. And so I just, at one point, it was actually on Thanksgiving day, I just looked at this and I just, I mean, there was very little thought went into it. I mean, literally, I mean, you know, it was more thought involved than you, you know, whether I wanted coffee when you asked me when I showed up here. I mean, it was just like a certain point, I just, I just saw it and I just, I just ripped the bandaid off. And yeah, so, um, and to answer your other question, it's been almost wholly positive, as you might expect, given the litany of pain and discomfort I just ran through. But I mean, it's also, it's surprising to recognize how much of a presence it was in my life, given the sense of what is now missing. I mean, it's like there's, it was, there's no question there was, there's an addictive component to it. And when you see, I mean, like when I look at what Elon's doing on Twitter, forget about his ownership of it. And I mean, I'm not, you know, I've got a lot to say about, you know, the choices he's making for the platform, but just his personal use of it is just so obviously an expression of, I mean, I don't know if addiction is the, you know, clinically appropriate term, but, you know, his dysfunctional attachment to tweet to using the platform. Forget it, again, forget about changing it and owning it. But just the degree to which it is pointlessly disrupting the life of one of the most productive people in any generation. I, that was also instructive to me, because I know Elon and I just, you know, he's, from, you know, kind of a friend's eye view of the situation. It's so obviously not good for him that he's spending this much time on Twitter. That I just brought that back to me. It's like, well, it is not, if this is what is doing to Elon and he's got all these other things he could be doing with his attention. How much of my use of Twitter is actually, you know, a good idea and, you know, optimized to my well-being and the well-being of the people around me. So anyway, it was, there was an addictive component to it, I think. And so when that got stripped off, I, you know, I do notice that there's, I mean, there's some, there are times I pick up my phone and I realize that this is like the old me picking up my phone for a reason that no longer exists. Because there's not that much, you know, I, you know, I have a Slack channel with my team and I've got email, obviously, but it's like that is not much of what I was doing with my phone really in the end. And so like, it's just, my phone is much less of a present in my life. And so it's, it's almost wholly good. But yeah, it's, you know, there's, I think there is some danger in, or some, some possible danger in losing touch with certain aspects of culture, which again, I'm not even sure, I mean, there's this question of, you know, how much is Twitter real life and how much is it just a mass delusion? I don't know, but in so far as it actually matters, what happens on Twitter or in so far as I was actually getting a news diet, which I'm not going to be able to recapitulate for myself, or I'm just not, in fact, want to recapitulate for myself, even if I could. If any of that matters, I haven't discovered that yet, but it's, yeah, I mean, there's, it was taking up an immense amount of bandwidth and it's impressive. I mean, I think I said, I, you know, it's like I amputated a phantom limb, right? It was not a real limb, but it was, it was a, this continuous presence in my life that, that it is, it's weirded. It actually relates to the concept of self in, in surprising ways, because I felt there was a part of myself that existed on Twitter. And I, you know, I, I just performed a suicide of that, that itself, rather like, that's, this is ending right now. And you know, there's no residue. There's nothing to go back and check. There's just, it's gone. I didn't even, I didn't go back and look at my, like, what's interesting to consider is that, you know, I'd been on Twitter for 12 years. I don't keep a journal. I mean, Twitter, what, in my timeline, would have been a kind of journal. I could have gone back to a specific hour in a specific day and looked at what I was paying attention to. I mean, that could have been an interesting record of just who I've been for a decade. And I, and I, and I'm probably a pretty humbling record of who I've been for a decade, in terms of the kinds of things that captivated my attention. But I didn't even, you know, it didn't even think to go in the state, you know, nostalgicly just look at any of that or see if any of it was worth saving or archiving or thinking, I just, just delete, you know, and it was some, and so my, my actual sense of who I am and my engagement with, with my audience, my, you know, the, the world of people who could potentially know me, like, what does it mean to be, to have a platform? You know, where do I exist digitally? My sense of, of all of that got truncated in a, in a way that is much less noisy. I mean, it's amazing how much can't get fucked up now in my life. Like, it's like, with Twitter, almost anything could happen, right? Like, like, the next tweet was always an opportunity to massively complicate my life. There is no analogous space for me now. And, you know, says, what I'm going to say on your podcast, what I'm going to say on my own podcast, what I'm going to write next. That's much more, you know, deliberative and the opportunities to take my foot out of my mouth or to reconsider all, you know, whether, any of this is worth it, is it worth, is this the hill I really want to die on now? It's much more, can be much more considered. And I mean, I think all of that's to the good. But even more important than that is that there's not, I'm not getting this continuous signal that is always inviting a response, whether on Twitter or on my own podcast or, you know, anywhere else. And it's just much less noisy. I mean, life is much less noisy and cluttered. And that's, you know, that is, it definitely feels better. Right. Just, it's 100% better. I'm happy to hear that. I know a number of people miss you there, but you sound happy. I sense the genuine happiness in it. Several things come to mind. First of all, thank you for sharing your, your rationale there and how it went. I think for a lot of people, I think, oh, you must have like walked around in circles for hours, talking about it. As many good decisions are executed. Right. Yeah. You know, I'm a big fan of Cal Newport's work, deep work. In many ways, cows, I've never met him, but we know each other through the internet space. He really ahead of his time with this notion of deep work and limiting distractions. I think he's even got a book about a world without email or something. Really extreme. So he had, I mean, he deserves some credit because he had been somewhat approximate cost of this. He had been on my podcast and he had encouraged me to delete Twitter because I had been, I had been sort of in reaching some kind of, you know, crisis point with it prior to that podcast. And so we've talked about it. And I had, I had recorded that podcast, but hadn't released, I actually recorded the podcast the day before I wound up deleting Twitter, but hadn't yet released it. So my podcast with him, you know, in the intro to it, I then give a postmortem on my deleting it. But he was, he was one of the last people who was in my head around these issues. And I had, I, you know, it was, that was not by accident. I had invited him on the podcast because I increasingly wanted to think about, you know, whether this was totally dysfunctional. Well, I'm a big fan of Cal Newport's and I, I am on social media, I'm on Twitter. I had some, you know, high friction interactions there. And I have a process for dealing with those, I tend to avoid high friction confrontations online, but Instagram is a much friendlier place. By the way, if you want to come over to where like the nice kids, like the cool kids actually hang out, strangely, I'm not looking for a substitute. Okay. Well, I didn't, I don't let me entice you over there. You do. But I think that this notion of really being able to access what Cal calls deep work, what Rick Rubin talks about, you know, being able to touch the source of great creativity and focus and on a regular base does require that one have certain types of, and in some cases, zero interaction with certain platforms that merely being on a platform and blocking people that would just won't provide. I think a lot of energy opens up and I'm fascinated by this concept of energy and we only have so much energy, yeah, neural energy to devote. And in many ways, what you describe, there's really, I think, striking parallels to what I'm talking about all along these last hours, which is that sometimes the thing that feels so, so powerful that has such a gravitational pull and that we think this is experience, this is life, this is just the way it is actually is an illusion. And when you step away from it, you realize that there's this whole other dimension of interactions that was available all along for that we, for whatever reason, were intervening in by way of our reflexive distracted behavior. So I think there's a there's a there's a poetry there. I was a hard case, but yeah, I got religion on this point. It's a good change. Well, Sam, I want to say a couple of things. First of all, every time you talk, I learn so much. And that's, you know, in the dimensions of neuroscience, even hardcore neural circuitry type stuff, which I'm, you know, sort of my home. When you talk about philosophy or meditation or psychedelics and even politics, some a topic that I'm, you know, woefully undereducated in, but you have this amazing ability to blend and synergize across things. And I think today what occurs to me is that not only is that no accident because of your training and your the rigor and the depth that which you've explored these different topics, but also your openness to it. But I think at least for me above all is because I think you are able to encapsulate this idea of the self and the different ways in which we each and all can potentially interact with the environment and our inner landscape. Your description of meditation, I have to say, is now has forever changed the way I think about meditation. I would no longer just think of it as a perceptual exercise. I, on the podcast, I've been talking about it as something to, to do for these various benefits, the benefit set of more focus, stress, etc., of which certainly exists. But what you described today has a, as such an allure and a, and a, um, hold such a promise that, um, as I mentioned, I'm certainly going to change my behavior. And I know I'm speaking on behalf of many, many people. I just want to extend my thanks for your coming here today to teach us even more because of course you have your podcast and the app and the waking up app. Um, and the fact that regardless of the political landscapes, regardless of the, what neuroscience feels about psychedelics or the, where things are at any point in time, you strike me as somebody who is very committed to sharing knowledge and thoughtful, deep discourse so that people can benefit. And there are very few people like you. Um, in fact, there's probably only just one. And so I feel very grateful to be sitting across the table from them for these last hours. Well, nice, nice. Well, I really enjoyed this. And I want to congratulate you on what you built here because your podcast is, is everywhere. I just, I'm, you know, I'm a, a fan and even more than that, I've continually seen the evidence of you reaching people and, and benefiting people. And it's just, it's really, I mean, like this is the one of the best examples of, you know, new media, just carving out of space that, that people didn't really know existed. You know, because like this is not television, it's not radio, it's not, and, and all of a sudden people have time to hear a conversation of great length that goes into, you know, nitty gritty scientific detail on, you know, hormones. I mean, like who would have thought that was even possible? And so, um, yeah, I was just, congratulations as fantastic to see. And I'm just very happy for the opportunity to talk to you and, and your people. Well, thank you. It's very gratifying to hear and, um, I feel very blessed, um, in no small part because of our conversation today. Thank you so much. Nice going to be continued to be continued. We'll do it again. Yeah. And again, and again. Thank you for joining me today for my discussion with Dr. Sam Harris. I hope you found it to be as enlightening as I did. And be sure to check out the waking up app that Dr. Sam Harris has made free to any Huberman lab listeners for 30 days by going to waking up.com slash Huberman. Please also check out his incredible podcast, the making sense podcast. And you can find any number of Sam Harris's different books on meditation, consciousness, philosophy, neuroscience, politics, and more. You can find links to those books by going to Sam Harris dot org. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's the best zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple. And on both Spotify and Apple, you can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for us or comments or topics that you'd like me to cover or guess you'd like me to invite onto the Huberman lab podcast, please put those in the comment section on YouTube. I do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. Not so much during today's episode, but on many episodes of the Huberman lab podcast, we discuss supplements while supplements aren't necessary for everybody. Many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like enhancing the depth and quality of sleep, for enhancing focus and for hormone support, and many other aspects of mental health, physical health and performance. The Huberman lab podcast is proud to announce that we are now partnered with momentous supplements because momentous supplements are of the very highest quality. They ship internationally and they have single ingredient formulations, which turns out to be important if you're going to develop the most cost effective and biologically effective supplementation regimen. If you'd like to access the supplements discussed on the Huberman lab podcast, you can go to live momentous spelled OUS. So live momentous.com slash Huberman. If you're not already following us on social media, we are Huberman lab on Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn and Facebook. And all of those places I talk about science and science related tools, some of which overlap with the content of the Huberman lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the content of the Huberman lab podcast. Again, it's Huberman lab on all social media handles, all platforms, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn. If you haven't already subscribed to our neural network newsletter, that's a monthly newsletter. It's completely zero cost and includes summaries of podcast episodes as well as toolkits for things like enhancing your sleep, enhancing your focus and ability to learn, hormone support, fitness and on and on. You simply go to Huberman lab.com, go to the menu, click on the menu and scroll down to newsletter, provide your email and you can start receiving our monthly neural network newsletter. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Sam Harris, all about meditation, consciousness, free will, psychedelics, social media and much, much more. And as always, thank you for your interest in science.
