Dr. Oded Rechavi: Genes & the Inheritance of Memories Across Generations | Huberman Lab Podcast
 Welcome to the Uberman Lab podcast where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Uberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Odde Rakhavi. Dr. Odde Rakhavi is a professor of neurobiology at Tel Aviv University in Israel. His laboratory studies genetic inheritance. Now everybody is familiar with genetic inheritance as the idea that we inherit genes from our parents. And indeed that is true. Many people are also probably now aware of the so-called epigenome. That is ways in which our environment and experiences can change our genome and therefore the genes that we inherit or pass on to our children. What is less known however and what is discussed today is the evidence that we can actually pass on traits that relate to our experiences. That's right. There is evidence in worms, in flies, in mice and indeed in human beings that memories can indeed be passed from one generation to the next. And that turns out to be just the tip of the iceberg in terms of how our parents experiences and our experiences can be passed on from one generation to the next, both in terms of modifying the biological circuits of the brain and body and the psychological consequences of those biological changes. During today's episode, Dr. Rakhavi gives us a beautiful description of how genetics work. So even if you don't have a background in biology or science by the end of today's episode, you will understand the core elements of genetics and the genetic passage of traits from one generation to the next. In addition, he makes it clear how certain experiences can indeed modify our genes such that they are passed from our parents to us and even transgenerational across multi-generations. That is, one generation could experience something and their grandchildren would still have genetic modifications that reflect those prior experiences of their grandparents. Dr. Rakhavi takes us on an incredible journey explaining how our genes and different patterns of inheritance shape our experience of life and who we are. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science-related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast. Our first sponsor is Roka. Roka makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality. The company was founded by two all-american swimmers from Stanford and everything about Roka eyeglasses and sunglasses were designed with performance in mind. I've spent a lifetime working on the biology of the visual system and I can tell you that your visual system has to contend with an enormous number of challenges in order for you to be able to see clearly under any conditions. Roka understands this and has designed their eyeglasses and sunglasses accordingly. Originally, Roka eyeglasses and sunglasses were designed for sport, that is, for things like running and cycling. And many of the features they have reflect that. So for instance, they are extremely lightweight, they won't slip off your face if you get sweaty, and they can indeed be worn for running and cycling and things of that sort. However, they also come in a number of different aesthetics and styles that make them perfectly suited not just for sport, but also for wearing to the office to work. If you'd like to try Roka eyeglasses or sunglasses, go to roka. That's roka.com and enter the code Huberman to save 20% off your first order. Again, that's roka roka.com and enter the code Huberman at checkout. Today's episode is also brought to us by HVMN ketone IQ. Ketone IQ is a ketone supplement that increases blood ketones. Almost everybody has heard of the so-called ketogenic diet. Most people, including myself, do not follow a ketogenic diet. That does not, however, mean that ketones cannot be valuable because ketones are one of the primary sources of brain fuel and body fuel that allows us to think clearly for long durations of time and to perform well physically. Which is all to say that even if you're somebody who's not on a ketogenic diet, such as myself, increasing your blood ketones can be immensely beneficial for cognitive and physical performance. Indeed, that's how I use ketone IQ. I'll take one or two servings per day, typically. Sometimes before a workout, but most typically before doing about of cognitive work. So I'm going to sit down and prepare a podcast or focus on research from my lab or writing project or anything that requires a high degree of concentration for a prolonged period of time. In just in ketone IQ prior to that, I've noticed greatly increases my level of concentration. And I can sustain that concentration for much longer periods of time than if I don't take ketone IQ. If you'd like to try ketone IQ, you can go to hvmn.com slash Huberman to say 20% off. Again, that's hvmn.com slash Huberman. Today's episode is also brought to us by eight sleep. Eight sleep makes smart mattress covers with cooling heating and sleep tracking capacity. So I've talked about many times before on the podcast. There's a critical relationship between sleep and temperature and indeed between waking up and temperature. That is your body temperature needs to decrease by about one to three degrees in order for you to fall and stay deeply asleep at night. And when you wake up in the morning in order to do that feeling refreshed, your body temperature actually needs to increase by about one to three degrees. So it's critical that you control the temperature of your sleeping environment and that that temperature be controlled very specifically across the night and into the morning. With eight sleep mattress covers, that's all extremely easy to do. You can program the temperature of your mattress in the beginning, middle and throughout the night and when you wake up. I've been sleeping on an eight sleep mattress cover for over a year now and it has greatly improved the quality of my sleep. And indeed, I know that because eight sleep also includes a terrific sleep tracker built directly into that mattress cover. If you'd like to try eight sleep, you can go to eight sleep.com slash Huberman to save $150 off their pod three cover. Eight sleep currently ships in the USA, Canada, UK select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's eight sleep.com slash Huberman. And now for my discussion with Dr. Oded Rahavi. Oded, thank you so much for being here. Totally my pleasure. Yeah, this podcast has an somewhat unusual origin because I am familiar with your work, but we essentially met on Twitter where you are known for many things. But lately, especially you have been focusing not just on the discoveries in your laboratory and other laboratories, but also sort of meme type humor that relates to the scientific process and we'll return to this a little bit later. But first of all, I think it's wonderful that you're so active on social media in this positive stance around science that also includes humor. But today, what I mainly want to talk about is the incredible questions that you probe in your lab, which are highly unusual, incredibly significant for each and all of our lives and very controversial and at times even a little bit dangerous or morbid. So this is going to be a fun one for me and for the audience. Just to start off very basically, you get everyone up to speed because people have different backgrounds. I think most people have a general understanding of what genes are, what RNA is, and so on. But maybe you could explain to people in very basic terms. And I'll just preface all this by saying that I think most people understand that if they have two blue eyed parents, that there's a higher probability that they they're offspring will have blue eyes than brown eyes. And so on. But that most people generally understand and accept that if they spend part of their life, let's say, studying architecture that if they have children that there's no real genetic reason we assume that their children would somehow be better at architecture because they contain the knowledge through the DNA of their parents, they might be exposed to it in the home, so called niggas. So called nature nurture as a nurture in that case, but that they wouldn't inherit knowledge or other traits. And today I'm hoping you can explain to us why I color, but not knowledge is thought to be inherited and the huge landscape of interesting questions that this opens up, including some evidence that contrary to what we might think. Certain types of knowledge at the level of cells and systems can be inherited. So that was a very long winded opening, but to frame things up. What is DNA, what is RNA, and how does inheritance really work? Okay, so DNA are the, is the material, the genetic instructions that is containing everyone of ourselves. We have the set of genes containing the entire set is called the genome, and this is present in every cell of our body, the same set of instructions. And genes are made of DNA and they're also contain and chromosomes, they are containing chromosomes, chromosomes is the DNA and the proteins that condense the DNA because we have a huge amount of DNA in every cell that you need to condense it to. Sort of like thread on a spoon. Right. Huge amounts that you have to condense. And we have the same gene on the same DNA in every cell in our body. Can I just interrupt and I'll do that periodically just to make sure that people are being carried along. I sometimes find that even remarkable that a skin cell and a brain cell, a neuron for instance, very different functions, but they all contain the full menu of genes and the same menu of genes. No, it is amazing. It is amazing. And perhaps it's good to have an analogy to understand how it works. So this is, I hope this is not a commercial, but this is like the IKEA book that you have in every cell in your body, the instructions to make everything that you need in your house, the chairs, the kitchen, the pictures, but in every room you want something else. So in the kitchen, you want things that fit the kitchen and in the toilet, you want things that fit the toilet. So you only remove one particular page of instructions, which is the instruction of how to build a chair. And this you place in the living room and the toilet. So the DNA is the instruction to make the genome, the instruction to make everything. This is the IKEA book. And in every cell we take just instructions for make one particular furniture, and this is the RNA. This is the RNA. This is the set. And then at the end, you'll build the chair. The chair is the protein. So the DNA is our instructions to make one particular protein based on the entire set of possibilities. And this is, this is true for one particular type of RNA, which won't be the style of this conversation, which is messenger RNA. This is the RNA that contains the information for making creative. In fact, this is just a small percent of our of the RNA in the cell. So we have a very big genome and less than 2% of it encodes for this messenger RNA. However, a lot of the genome is transcribed to make RNA that does other things. Some of these RNAs we understand, and many of them we don't. I think it's a beautiful description. And IKEA is not a sponsor of the podcast. So it's a totally fair game to use the IKEA catalog as the analogy for DNA. The specific instructions for specific pieces of furniture is the RNA and the furniture pieces being the proteins that are essentially made from RNA using messenger RNA. Okay. Thank you for that. So despite the fact that the same genes are contained in all the cells of the body, there is a difference between certain cell types. Is it fair to say that there is basically one very important exception, which is somatic cells versus term cells? And would you mind sharing with us what that distinction is? So, so yes, every cell type is different because it expresses, it brings into action different genes from the entire collection and assumes an identity. And so we have cells in the legs, we have cells in the brain, we have cells that produce dopamine, cells that produce a rotten it and so on. And we can make different separation, different distinctions, but we can make one very important distinction between the somatic cells and the germ cells. The germ cells are supposed to be the only cells that contributes to the next generation that, out of which the next generation will be made. So each of us is made just from a combination of a sperm and an egg, these are two types of germ cells. And then the fuse and you make you get one fertilized egg and out of this one cell, all the rest of the body will develop. And what happens in the soma, which is, which are all the cells that are not the germ cells, should stay in the soma, should not be able to contribute to the next generation. This is very important and it's ought to be one of the main barriers for the inheritance of acquired traits, inheritance of memory and so on. Because for example, like the example that you gave her in with learning architecture, if I learn about architecture, the information is encoded in my brain. And since my brain cells can't transfer information to the sperm and the egg, because the information is supposed to reside in synaptic connections between different neurons in particular circuits that developed. So what happens is that the brain shouldn't be able to transfer to the next generation. Even simpler example, you go to the gym and you build up muscles, you know that your kids will have to work out on their own. This short out won't happen. This is something that we know intuitively, even if we don't have any background in biology. And this is connected to the fact that as we said at the beginning, every cell in the body has its own genome. And the next generation will only form from the combination of the genomes in the sperm and the egg. Even if you somehow acquire the mutation or change in your DNA in one of particular brain cells, it wouldn't matter because this mutation, there's no way to transfer it to the DNA of the germ cells that will contribute to the next generation. So despite that, there is, as you will tell us, some evidence for inheritance of experience, let's call it. And here we have to be careful with the language. I just want to put a big asterix and underlined in a highlight that the language around what we're about to talk about is both confusing. And at the same time, fairly simple and controversial, right? It's a little bit like in the, in the field of longevity. People sometimes will say anti-aging, some people say longevity. The anti-aging folks feel that longevity is more about longevity clinics. They don't like that. Anti-aging is related to some other kind of niche clinics, sometimes FDA proved or a government approved sometimes not. And so there's a lot of argument about the naming, but it's all about living longer and living healthier. And in this field of acquiring traits or the passage of information to offspring, what is the proper language to refer to what we're about to discuss? There is this idea, and I'll say it so that you don't have to, that dates back to Lamarck and Lamarckian evolution, very controversial, right? And maybe not even controversial. I think it's very like offensive even to certain people. But it's not just about the importance of acquired traits. The idea that one could change themselves through some activity, use the example going to the gym. We could also use the example somebody who becomes an endurance runner, then decides to have children with an another endurance runner, and has in mind the idea that because they did all this running, and not just because they were biased towards running in the first place, but because they, of the distance they actually ran that they're offering somehow would be fabulous runners. And so this Lamarckian concept is, we believe wrong. So how do we talk about inheritance of acquired traits? What's the proper language for us to frame this discussion? We have to be very careful, I just said, and there are many complications and many ambiguities. And maybe you could tell us why Lamarckian evolution for those that don't know is so such a stained thing. So it's not polite. Perhaps we'll start with just to just say that we can talk about inheritance, acquired traits, the transmission of parental responses, inheritance of memory, all of these things. And we can also talk about epigenetics and transgenerational epigenetics and intergenerational epigenetics. There are many terms that we need to, to make clear for the audience. The reason that is so toxic of controversial is very complicated and it goes a long time back, even way before Lamarck. So even the Greeks talked about inheritance, acquired traits. Lamarck is associated with the term, but it's probably a mistake, although everyone talks about including people who studied. So Lamarck worked, he published his book about a little more than 200 years ago, and he believed in inheritance acquired traits, absolutely, but just like anyone else in his time. Just everyone believed in it. It's obvious to them that it was long before Mendel and the rules of genetic inheritance. And also Mendel was long before the understanding that DNA is the heritable material. So this happens a long time ago. Everyone believed in it, including Darwin. Darwin was perhaps more Lamarck and the Lamarck. Really? Yes, absolutely. Now we're getting into the mean of it. And this is in the origin of the species. It's in all of his writings. Lamarck didn't even really make the distinction between the generations. He had many other reasons for being wrong, but he connected the terms inheritance acquired traits to evolution. And this is some of the reason that he was very controversial even in his time. There were other reasons, for example, he rejected current day chemistry and thought that he can explain everything based on Aristotelian fluids, earth, wind, fire and water. There's still some people on the internet that think they can discard with chemistry and explain everything that's on earth, wind, fire and fire. This wasn't only biology, it was also the weather and everything. So that was part of the reason. But Lamarck made many mistakes, but he did have a full tier of inheritance, which was a big step towards where we are today. And he had important contributions, nevertheless. Although he was a mistake about the mechanism, what he believed, like everyone else, drives evolution, is the transmission of the traits that you acquired during your life, or the things that you do or don't you do, we talked about use and this use of certain organs that shape our organs and eventually also the organs of the next generation. And this sounds a little bit like the first self-help public figure. Well, this idea, I mean, this is heavily embedded into a lot of the health and fitness space on the Twitter and Instagram and on the internet, which is that, and it's the idea that we're sold very early in life, at least here in the United States and probably elsewhere, which is that we can become anything that we want to become. And then that will forever change the offspring either because of nature or nurture. And this is a very dangerous idea as I'll explain in a second and we led to horrible things. This is part of the reason that this is such a taboo. It's not only self-help, you're helping all this helping yourself. The problem is when you apply to others, and this happens in a very dramatic and horrible way in recent, in the recent past, as I'll tell you in a second. And this is what I believe. And he thought this is how evolution progress and later Darwin showed that it's really natural selection, the selecting of the people that of the organisms that are already that already contain the particular qualities are selected based on the whether they survive or not in particular environments. And the evolution progress is they become more common and take over. This is very different, two different explanations. The most common way this is contrasted is the neck of the giraffes. This is a classic example. According to Lamar, the giraffes had to stretch their neck towards the trees to eat when the trees were high. And because of that, they transmitted these traits long next to the children who also had long next. And by the way, he only mentioned this example, a handful of times. He didn't really focus on that. And according to that, we just, the giraffes, happened to be born with the long neck survived because it ate, so it's genetic, heritable materials, in no way about genetics, but take over. And the rest of the giraffes that have different heritable materials just die. So this is natural selection versus inheritance for quadrates. And why Lamar keys them and inheritance for quadrates became such a bad term. One of the biggest is what happened in the Soviet Union, under Stalin, there was a scientist called Lissenko who thought that Mendelism, normal genetics is bourgeois science, shouldn't be done. He did normal genetics was either killed or sent to the Siberia. And he thought that, just like you said, we can not only we can become everything that we want, but we can grow everything that we want in every field can take frozen field and grow potatoes there and so on. And this led to massive starvation, ruin agriculture in the Soviet Union, also in science for many, many years and put a very dark cloud on the entire field. And only probably in the 80s or something like this, the field started to recuperate for that. Aside for that, which is a very dramatic thing, there was also crazy stories around and attempts to prove the inheritance are quite great. Despite the realization of many scientists is something that is very rare or that normally doesn't happen, that is not a normal way that inheritance works. And I can tell you about two such dramatic cases that will illustrate it. So in the beginning of the 20th century, in Vienna, there was a researcher called Paul Camere, who was a very famous and also very colorful figure, who did experiments on many different types of animals. He did experiments on toads that are called the midwife's toad because the male carries the DX. And there's a beautiful book about it from Kessler telling the story of what happened there. And there are a couple of types of toads. Some of them live under water and some of them live on land. And these toads are different in the shape and in the behavior. And so, of course, the capacity to live under water is one thing, but also the morphology and appearance changes. The toads that live under water develop these noobital pads, these black pads on their hands that allow the males to grab onto the female without slipping for mating, for mating. And the ones on land don't have them. He claimed that he can take the toads and train them to live under water, changing the temperature and all kinds of things. It's a very difficult animal to work with. Eventually, according to Camere, they will acquire the capacity to live under water and also change the physiology and develop these noobital pads on their heads. And in this discovery, he traveled the world, became very famous. This was just the beginning of the previous century. As the person who found the proof for inheritance for carat rates, despite the controversy and so on. And the beginning of the realization of how it actually works with DNA and so on. Not with DNA, but with natural selection DNA came later. And people didn't believe him. He was actually under a lot of attacks, but it seemed convincing. At the end, what happened is that they found that he injected ink to the toads to make them become black, to have these noobital pads. So he fed the results. And he couldn't stand up with the accusations and killed himself. In this book by Kessler, it was the assistant to do this. Who killed him? No, no. Who injected it to save him from because the samples lost the coloring or something. So it might be who knows what. Well, in science, whenever there's a fraud accusation or controversy, it's not uncommon to see a passing of responsibility. There are recent cases, there are ongoing cases now, where it's a question of who did what, etc. Actually, I have two questions before the second story. I'm struck by the idea that he was traveling and talking. I'm guessing this was before PowerPoint and keynote, but also before transparencies, which are actually were still in place when I was a graduate student. For those of you who don't know transparency, they're basically transparent pieces of plastic paper that you put onto a projector. And then you can write on them and do demonstrations, but can show photographs and things like that. So how is he giving these talks and what he traveled with the toes? So he traveled with the samples. I see. And I'm basing this on this Kessler book, which is on its own very controversial. It's more of a beautiful story than, you know, perhaps the truth. But and according to the story, they had to stand one side of the lecture hall with his hands behind the back, while others would examine the samples and pass them around and so. But he cheated someone cheated. He probably he probably did it. At least that's what most people think. This wasn't replicated. I mean, also, I don't think anyone tried to replicate it. Interesting. Rep, this is just a point about replication and actually another tragic example, not, but a few years ago, Sakai, who was a. As far as we knew, it was doing very accomplished work on the growth of retinas, literally growing eyes in a dish. I think everyone believes that result. But then there were some accusations about another result that turned out to be fraudulent and Sakai killed himself. This was a recent, this was only about five, 10 years ago. So it still happens. Yeah, I think it's rare, but it does happen. Especially in this play high profile. I would argue I'd love to know what your number is, but I would argue that 99% of scientists are seeking truth and are well meaning honest people. I totally agree. And I think that even when people are wrong, it's mostly not because they're evil and trying to act deflect. I really want to believe the results or there are all kinds of way to be wrong and even to bend truth without just blatant fraud. But this is according to the story and an example of very bad fraud, which is I agree is rare because most scientists, as you said, this also my opinion, are just trying to discover truth and do the best they can. I also would you go into it because it's certainly not a profession to go into if you want to get rid of them. And it's probably not even a profession to go into if you want to get famous. If you want to be famous, you should go to Hollywood or become a serial killer because they'll make specials. Please don't. But please don't do either. No, Hollywood I suppose for some is fine. But in any case, okay, so camera around 1907, 1906. Slightly before the whole thing that the controversy broke out after the first world war. Okay. Yeah. Great. So camera is gone. His toads with their either ink or whatever, nupital pads. They have to go back to mating on land. Yeah. Okay. I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors, Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens now called AG1 is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that covers all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens since 2012. So I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or usually twice a day is that it gets to be the probiotics that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by gut microbiota that communicate with the brain, the immune system and basically all the biological systems of our body to strongly impact our immediate and long term health. And those probiotics and Athletic Greens are optimal and vital for microbiotic health. In addition, Athletic Greens contains a number of adaptogens, vitamins and minerals that make sure that all of my foundational nutritional needs are met. And it tastes great. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to Athletic Greens.com slash Huberman. And they'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up Athletic Greens while you're on the road and the car on the plane, etc. And they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D3 K2. Again, that's Athletic Greens.com slash Huberman to get the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D3 K2. So, so this is forget about that. We also had the Lisenko episode. You know, that's a very big thing. And then in the US, there was in the 70s and 80s, a researcher named McConnell, who did very different experiments. And he was also a character. He worked on. So he was the Joker type of thing. And he published many of his results in a journal that he published that was called Warm's Breeders Gazette and had many cartoons and he started his own journal. Yes. And that's one way to publish a lot. But they also published in very respected journals in parallel. But it was a psychologist, American psychologist. And he worked on a warm, which is a flat warm, which is called Plenary. And it's very interesting. It's a different than what we'll discuss today. Different type of warm. And you know, warm's are very common. So four out of five animals on this planet is a warm. Really? Yes. Numerically, it's just counting the individuals. So we are the exception. And so, but I'll talk about it very different warm later. This is a flat warm. This is called Plenary. And it is remarkable in many ways. And I know I'm not that many people worked on including the the fathers of genetics and people of solid genetics like Morgan, they worked on it in the beginning, but it's very, very how to study genetics in this warm. Because unlike us, unlike what we explained before about how we all develop from sperm and an egg. These warms, most of the time, reproduce just by vision. They're tear themselves apart. So they have a head and a tail and the part of the head would just tear itself apart on the tail, grow a new, the head will grow a new tail, the tail will grow a new head. You can even cut them to 200 pieces each piece will grow into a new one. And they have centralized brains with lobes and everything and even this degenerate eyes. He studied these warms and he said that he can teach them certain things. Associations by pairing all four. I don't remember exactly what he did. I think it was either lights or electricity with shock them with other things and he could train them to learn and remember particular things. Like you might get shocked on one side of the tank. And then avoid that side of the tank. Yes. And then I guess the question is whether or not there are there ripped apart cells and their subsequent generations will know to avoid that side of the tank without having ever been exposed to the shock. So without ever being exposed to shock or whether the new generation, the new heads will be able to learn faster. That's another subtlety that you might have. And this is what he said he said he can teach them certain things, remove cut of their heads and new heads with all the brain will grow and that it will contain the memory. This was a start of the controversy, not the end of only the beginning. Then he said something even much wilder which is he can train them to learn certain things and then just chop them up, put them in a blender and feed them to other warms because they are cannibalistic. They eat each other and that the memory will transfer through feeding this sounds such a dramatic feel. By the way, this this opened the field for people did experiments that not only in Plenary about in goldfish fish and certain broadens and did this memory brain transfer essays implanting brain. And this is in the back when they they had an idea that some memories could be more local ask would have a molecular form which is very appealing is almost like science science fiction. And memory in a tube unlike the way we think about memory normally which is something that is distributed in the neural circuits and encoded in the strength of particular sign ups and so on. But but the idea that you can take a memory and reduce it into a molecule and transfer it around is very, very interesting. So this why it attracted so many people this ended up in a catastrophe. So there was an NIH investigation couldn't no one can replicate anything it was a big mess although there were always scientists who said yes we can replicate this and this so they were in the back. McConnell stuff was different. Again people thought that they couldn't that's the other problems replicating but it wasn't necessarily but some people replicate but it wasn't necessarily about replicating the whole thing but the question was. Did the memory that transfer is specific or is it an overall sensitization that transmits and so on right like you could imagine what gets transmitted is a hypersensitivity to electricity as opposed to the specific location that the electricity was introduced or even more than that even just you know hypersensitivity in general more you're more vigilant and you learn. Anything's a faster that also possible but his problem wasn't the accusation it was much worse that he was targeted by the unabomber this terrible is to send letters with bombs to many scientists for 15 years and and his assistant again is assistant I think exploded and this is how his line of research ended. Just recently a few years ago researcher from Boston and Mike levin and and his postdoc Tal Shomrat replicated some of McConnell's experiment with the cutting of the head but in a very using very fancy equipment and automated tracking they could say that they couldn't replicate some of this his his his experience really yes and they don't open packages in that lab. They have they have interesting stories you should have Mike over familiar with with a bit of his work now I didn't realize they don't that so they published it yet a few years ago and it's very interesting but of course they don't know how it happens the mechanism is unclear. McConnell went a step further than this and what fascinating is that this is these are experiments are were done in the 70s and 80s he said that he cannot only transfer the memories through chopped animals but he can take the animals that learned and break it down into different fractions for just the DNA just the RNA just the fats the proteins the sugars and he said that the fraction that transmit the memory is the RNA and this is very very interesting because it was a long time before everything that we know about RNA today. I'll soon go into my research explain what we do and then you see that you can actually feed worms with RNA and get and have many things happen this is everyone knows this is true. So this way was so appealing to go back to and and and study by the way at the time it became popular knowledge everyone knew this experiment there's a there's a start like episode about it from 84. There's a comic books about it books about it so this was very and people were eating RNA because they thought that there's RNA memory this was of course complete nonsense but but this was it made a lot of noise in these years which is part of the reason it was so toxic until recently you couldn't touch it because it's considered pseudoscience likely senko like camera no so this was just something you didn't want to touch at all and and then we go back to to to this studies about inheritance of memory or inheritance for quite trades in other organisms in in in humans and aside from the dark cloud that these episodes left there were also theoretical problems why of why this can happen barriers that have to be breached for this to happen. And you can you can talk about many different types of barriers and and you can also narrow it down to two main barriers first barrier we mentioned it this is the separation of the summer from the German right the somatic cells they can change in response to experience the sperm and the egg the so called germ cells cannot there are all the isolated on what happens in the summer. The main who first thought about this barrier is called wise man or wise man is what in the 19th century. So it is called today the wise man barrier separation of the summer from the German only the germ line transmitting for met into next generation. And this is also called the second law biology so this is very very fundamental so natural selection is the first one this is the second one because it's so important to how we work. To how our bodies work wise man by by the way thought that if you will have direct influence of the environment on the germ says then perhaps this could transfer to the next generation so it wasn't as strict as his barrier suggests but but this is not how most people remember it. But he thought that this is unnecessary it's possible that natural selection can expand everything and it compared to a boat which is in the ocean it is sailing and it has a sail open so you don't have to assume that it has an engine the wind is blowing you don't have to assume other things natural selection might be enough. So this barrier is still standing but not entirely it is reaching some organisms will go into that in a second the other barrier is the it we now we have to to extend the other bear we have to talk about epigenetics we have to define epigenetics and what it is. And epigenetics is another term which people misuse horribly and it is about everything that is epigenetics even people from the field. The word itself, the term was defined in the 40s by Weddington, Conrad Weddington. And he talked about the interactions between genes and the products that in the end bring about phenotype of the consequences and how genes influence development. Later people discovered mechanisms that change the action of genes, different mechanisms and started talking about these epigenetics. For example, the DNA is built out of four basic elements, the ATG and C. And they can be chemically modified. So in addition to just the information that you have in the sequence of the DNA, you also have this information in the modification of the basis. Most common modification that has been studied more than others is modification of the letter C of cytosine, methylation, addition of a methyl group to this C. And this can be replicated so after the DNA, the cells divide and replicate the genetic material. In certain cases also these chemical modifications can be added on and replicated and be preserved. For those who aren't as familiar with thinking about genes and gene structure and epigenetics, could we think of these, you mentioned it for nucleotide bases, CGA, D. But could we imagine that through things like methylation, it's sort of like taking the primary colors and adding a changing one of them a little bit, changing the hue just slightly. Which then opens up an enormous number of new options of colored integration, just more combinations, more ways, more information. There are the modifications of the DNA and also there are the modifications of the proteins which condense the DNA that are called histones. So they are also modified by many different chemicals. Again, methylation is a very common modification and methylation, even serotonin. There's serotonin relation of histones. Serotonin. This is a new paper from nature from a few years ago. Can change DNA. Not the DNA itself, but the protein that condenses it. Essentially how in the analogy I used before of how the thread is wrapped around the spool essentially. Yes. And this determines the degree of condensation of the DNA, whether the gene is now more or less accessible and therefore can perhaps be expressed more or less. This is one way to affect the gene expression and bring about the function of the gene. There are many additional ways, not the only one. So then when all of this was starting to be lucidated, people talked about epigenetics. I started talking about these modifications. Forgot the original definition. And when people said epigenetics, they talk about methylation and things like that. And again to just frame this up. So we can imagine two identical twins, so called monozagotic twins. We could go a step further and say that they're monocorionic and they were in the same placental sac because twins can be raised in separate sacs, slightly different early environments. Let's say those two twins are raised separately. One experiences certain things. The other things they eat different foods, etc. And there is the possibility through epigenetic mechanisms that through methylation, acetylation, serotonin, production, etc. And the expression of certain genes in one of the twins could be amplified relative to the other. So we know that even I totally identical twins, genetically they are identical, but they look different and they are different. We experience, we all experience it. And this can happen because of these epigenetic changes. Or it can happen because of other mechanisms. Because genes respond to the environment, genes don't exist in a vacuum. There are genes that need to be activated by transcription factors. There's a lot of machinery that is responsible for making genes function. So we are a combination of our genetic material and the environment. So when people talk about epigenetics and talks just about the modification, they're also not exactly right. My definition of epigenetics is inheritance, which occurs either across cell division or more interestingly also for this podcast now across generations. Not because of changes to the DNA sequence, but through other mechanisms. I think this is the most robust definition that allows you to understand what you're talking about. And then again, and then the question is, if this happens, then what are the molecules that actually transmit information across generations? Are they these chemical modifications to the DNA or to the proteins that condense a DNA or are there other agents that transmit information? And which molecules can do it? And I actually think that the most interesting players today are RNA molecules. But before I go into that, I just want to say that when we talk about the barriers to epigenetic inheritance or the barriers to inheritance of acquired traits, in addition to the separation of the summer from the German that we discussed, the other main barrier, it's called epigenetic reprogramming, which is that we acquired our cells, the genetic material in our cells, acquires all kinds of changes, this chemical changes modification we discussed. But these modifications are largely erased in the transition between generations. So in the germline, in the sperm and the egg, and also in the early embryo, most of the modifications are removed so we can start a blank slate based on the genetic instructions. And this is crucial. Otherwise, according to the theory, it's not clear that actually true because in some organisms, it doesn't really happen. We will just, we will not develop, according to the species typical genetic instructions. So to preserve this, we erase the, the, all these modifications that start on you. And this is in, in memories and in humans, this is largely to most of the modifications on the, in the sperm and in the egg, are removed. So about 90% of them, some remain, which could be interesting. So the idea, if I understand correctly, is that there's some advantage to wiping the slate clean and returning to the original plant in, in the context of the IKEA furniture analogy. The instruction book is the one that's issued to everybody, okay, or every cell, right? Only certain instructions are used for certain cells, say a skin cell or a neuron or a liver cell or any other cell for that matter. Through the course of the lifespan of the organism, those specific instructions are adjusted somewhat. Okay, so maybe like IKEA furniture, sometimes you, you, they sent you seven, not eight of particular screws, where they sent you the proper number, but you put them in the wrong place. And it sort of changes the way that the thing works a little bit. Once that assuming furniture could reproduce, but here in the analogy of the furniture as, as the cell or, or the organ in that, makes with another organism, that needs to be replicated. And so the idea is to take the instruction, but go through and erase all the pen and pencil marks, erase all those additional little modifications that the owner use or introduce to it and return to the original instruction. Right, because if you want to bring back the instruction book, you want it to have all the potential to make all the furniture. You don't want it to be restricted to the ones that you made in the particular room. So it's essentially the opposite of acquired traits and characteristics based on your, what we say in biology, geek speak lineage based experience, but what your parents experience, right? In some ways, we want to eliminate all that and go back to just the genes they provided. Yes, but it's more complicated, it's more complicated, that because we have some very striking examples, even in memos, where some of the of the marks are maintained. For example, the classic example is imprinting, imprinting is a very interesting phenomena. The way DNA works is that you inherit a copy for every chromosome from your mother and your father. And then you have in every cell of your body two copies, if you're a human, of every chromosome. And then, so every gene is represented twice. These are called alleles, the different versions of the genes. And the thought is that once you enter the next generation, the two copies that you inherited are equal. It doesn't matter whether you acquire, acquire them from your mother or from your father, right? There are some situations where it does matter. There is a limited number of genes that are in print, are called imprinting genes, where it does matter whether you inherited from your mother or your father. And this is happening through epigenetic inheritance, it's not because of changes to the DNA sequence, but because of maintenance of these chemical modifications across generation. And as I recall from the beautiful work of Catherine Dulach at Harvard that especially in the brain, there is evidence that some cells contain the complete genome from mom or the complete genome from dad. And it can also switch during your life. So for her work show that early on in your life, it's different, whether you express the maternal or paternal copy than when you're more mature. So parents and children take note, you know, for those of you that are saying, oh, you know, the child is more like you or more like me, that can change across the lifespan. And you're thinking about your parental lineage and wondering whether or not you quote unquote inherited some sort of trait from mother or from father, it can be of course both or it can be just one or just the other, which I think most parents tend to see and describe in their children from time to time. That's just like the father or that's just like the mother. But it's important to know that in this situation, the environment played no role. This was just whether it passed to mother or the father. It's not that something that happened to the mother or the father affected this. So this is slightly the question is now can the environment change the hereditary material? So it's very important to understand that there's a difference between nurture and nature. And this is very confusing. People are, it's a little subtle. So for example, people tell me, I'm growing horses for many years. And I just know that this horse has a particular character. It's very different from from the other horse. And so this is epigenetic inheritance. No, it could be just genetically determined. Yes, this horse inherited a different set of genetic instructions. So it is different. Doesn't have to be about epigenetics. Epigenetic inheritance means that the environment of the parents somehow changed the children. And there there are these two main barriers that are fear is bad bottlenecks that we have to think what type of molecule and how they can be bridged. So one possibility is that it's really this limited number of chemical modifications that survive. And which is about 10% also. That could be very interesting. Not a small number. Not a small number, but perhaps perhaps. This is one possibility. The other possibility that there are other mechanisms. The situation now in humans is that it's just really unclear what transmit. If it can transmit on which molecule does it. We'll talk later about other organisms where it is a lot more clear. But in humans and in mammals in general, there are many examples for environments that change the children. Whether they that you need to invoke an epigenetic mechanism to explain this phenomena, this is unclear. First of all, because it's how to separate near nurture for nurture. And second, because the mechanism is just not understood. So there are classic examples for enumens. There were periods of famine starvation in different places in the world. In the Netherlands in China, in Russia, where people did huge epidemiological study to study the next generation and saw that the children of women who were starved during pregnancy are different. In many ways, they have different birth weights, glucose sensitivity, and also some neurological higher changes of getting some neurological diseases. And this has been shown in very large studies. Is there ever an instance of which starvation or hardship of some kind, some challenge, a sensory challenge or survival based challenge led to adaptive traits? Yes, there are in different organisms. It could be as a result of a trade-off. So there could be a downside as well. But for example, there are two examples that come into mind. One of them is that if you stress male mice or rats, I don't remember. This is work of Isabelle Mansui in the ETH in Switzerland. If you stress the males, you can do it in many different ways. I don't remember exactly how they did, but you can separate them from their mothers, you can do social defeat, all kinds of things. Then the next generations are less stressed. They show less anxiety. So they're threshold for stress is higher? Yes, however, I think they have memory deficits and other metabolic problems. Which may be an advantage for dealing with stress. It could be. I don't have any direct evidence of it. There are some simmering ideas that our ability to anchor our thoughts in the past, present or future seems very adaptive in certain contexts. In other contexts, it can keep us roominating and not adaptively present to our current challenge. Another example is that nicotine exposure. This is the work of Olive Hondo from UMES. I'm not mistaken, these are not my studies, but they improve the tolerance to exposure to similar drugs in the next generation. The interesting thing here is that it's very non-specific. You treat them with nicotine, but then in the next generation there are more tolerant to nicotine, but also to other things cocaine. That sort of makes sense to me because obviously nicotine activates the colonergic system, the dopaminergic system at panepheren, etc. And you can imagine that there's crossover because other drugs like cocaine and fetamine mainly target the catacolomines. In this particular study, if I remember correctly, they show that this happens, this heritable effect, even if you use an antagonist to block the nicotine receptor. It's something more about clearance of xenobiotics and hepathic functions that is transmitted and is very non-specific. What I love about all the examples you've given today, and especially that one, is, and I hope that people, if you're just listening, I'm smiling because biology is so cryptic sometimes. The obvious mechanism is rarely the one that's actually at play, and people always ask, well, why? Why is it like this? And I would say, you know, the one thing I know for sure is that I wasn't consulted the design phase. And if anyone claims they were, then you definitely want to back away very fast. And there could be so many trade-offs, so many trade-offs. And also for example, we studied and also other many other people studied, effects, these are in warms. We'll go deep into that in a second, but the show that when you start them, the next generations live longer. And this, I think, could be a trade-off with other things like fertility. So the next generations are more sick and less fertile, and perhaps because of that, they live longer. So it's not necessarily a good thing, right? I don't want to draw you off course, because this is magnificent what you're doing and, and, and, and, and, playing out for us here. But to recall, there was a few years ago, it actually ended very tragically. It was an example. I think it was down in San Diego County. There was a cult of sorts that were interested in living forever. And so they castrated, the male self-castrated themselves in the idea that somehow maintaining some pre-pubescent state or reverting to a pseudo pre-pubescent state. Would somehow extend longevity. The idea that sexual behavior somehow limited lifespan. This has been an idea that's been thrown around in the kind of more wacky longevity communities. They also shaved their heads. They also wore the same sneakers, but then they also all committed suicide, right? Is the hellbop comet came through town. But that's just, but one example of many cults aimed at sort of that obviously was not life extension. That was life truncation, but aimed at kind of eternal life or some sort of through caloric or some sort of, through caloric restriction. That's right. This this cult also was very into the whole idea that by through caloric restriction, we can live much longer, which may actually turn out to be true. I think it's still debated. Hence all the debate about intermittent fasting, et cetera. But also it is known that if you overeat, you shorten life. This is this is clear. It's known that big-bodied members of a species live far shorter lives than the smaller members of a great dain versus a Choa, for instance. So there is some sort of shards of truth is in all of these things, but I it seems to me that the real questions like what is the real mechanism and why would something like this exist? Right. And why questions are very dangerous in the hell and you're right. Right. But but very interesting goes. And so so when it comes to metabolic changes and nutrition, there are numerous examples where you either overfeed or start and get effects in the next generations. Many of the sometimes the effects contrast depending on the way you do this. Again, these are none of we don't do any of that in in members, but people show that you starving or overfeeding the mothers, all the faddles changes the body weight of the next generation and also the glucose tolerance and and other and and also a productive success. And and so the fact that there's an effect that there's something that transmit this is clear. The question is how miraculous is it and whether you need new biology and epigenetics to explain what do I mean by that? If you affect the next generation. It doesn't necessarily has to go through the all side of the sperm and involve the epigenome. You change the metabolism of the animal as it develops and obviously it will affect it. When you for example, a star we men that are pregnant as happened during the this famous starvation studies. The the baby is already in utero exposed directly to the environment. So it's not even a heritable effect. The baby is itself that affected it's a direct effect. Very interesting important and has many implications and it will be separate from the genetics. You'll have to take it into account to understand what's going on. It doesn't require necessarily new biology and new new biology of inheritance. Not only is the embryo affected the embryo while in utero already has jams. So it's also the next generation is directly exposed and you don't need any new biology necessarily to explain it and you doesn't have has to involve genetic epigenetics or epigenetics. It's clear to me that in the female fetus the total number of eggs that she will someday produce and potentially have fertilized by sperm exist. So in the males with a 60 day sperm cycle leads me the question do fetal males, males as fetuses living as fetuses in their moms already start producing sperm or it's the primordial cells that give rise to sperm. So I'm not an expert so I don't want to go into the details of exactly when in males. But yes, exposure of the mother also affect the eventually the transmission of the father of genetic information for the sperm's father and there are also many examples of just stressing the fathers affecting the sperm and affecting the next generation. If you go to the F2 generation, if you go to generations down the road, not to the kids but to the grandkids, then it is a real epigenetic effect because you examine something that happens although the next generation was never exposed to the original challenge. So when we say about epigenetic inheritance through the paternal lineage, through the funders we talk about two generations and when you go through the mother, it's three generations to talk about when you need to invoke some real epigenetic mechanism and there the evidence becomes much more scarce in men. There are examples more or less convincing, the field is evolving and improving a lot. So for example now to many people use the cutting edge is to use IVS in vitro fertilization or transfer of embryos to make sure that you actually it's the it's the heritable information and not the environment or that it goes through the germline. So this is something that is being done now there are studies that repair IVF where they take the DNA from mom the sperm from dad and they take the DNA from mom and put it into a novel side of us or no, not as all you just you just take the sperm and transfer it and fertilize it the the the an egg. So standard IVF yes, you can do it in many different ways, but this idea that you separate the environmental the environment of the mother from the inheritance or the environment of the father. And to control and separate nature from the environment becomes the culture dish yes. So so the field is is improving people do experiments that have a higher end so more replicates and better controlled and there are some examples for effects that transfer and it depends who you ask whether people believe it or not. Many geneticists do not believe it and many people do believe it and it depends on the community there are strong resistance for many reasons some of them are justified some less justified in our part of the scientific process of and how things work because it's it's a new it's challenging the dogma so this is very interesting on its own. If you ask psychologist many psychologists believe that there's a trauma and things like that population geneticists less so. So this really depends and I think that we are just at a point in time where we don't really know whether it happens and to what extent and we need bigger studies even if you think about normal just genetic studies where people trying to understand the genetic underpinning of complex traits like. Anything that involves the brain pretty much we now know that you need to study many many many people so now this big genome wide association studies big genetic studies involve hundreds of thousands of people no one did an experiment like this for epigenetics. It's much more complicated because you need to also take into account the environment and I don't I'm not even sure we know how to design such an experiment it's very very challenging. So so the part of the resistance resistance to the ideal is based on the theoretical grounds because of these barriers and because of the control versus on the other hand there's people really want to believe it people really want to believe it because it's sorts of gives your life meaning if you can change your biology through changing your of your body. Of your kids for changing your biology sort of psychologically I can understand why many people want this to happen even shredding the famous physicist so he wrote a very important book in 44 so this was before the double helix and the. It's called what is life this is actually a book that was drove many by physicists to establish molecular biology it's very very important and he talked about the heritable material also talks about evolution and he said unfortunately the market is a more inheritance of a quite right is untenable doesn't happen. And it writes this is very very sad or unfortunate because unlike Darwinism or natural selection which is gloomy doesn't matter what you do next generation will be born based on the instruction in the sperm and the egg doesn't met you can't influence it of course you can give your kids money and education but you can't biologically influence it you can also so one thing i'm fascinated by for a number of reasons is partner selection. I mean in some ways you know we think oh we want to find someone who is the kind that does seem to be by the way the primary feature at least in the data tell us we had David bust on the podcast of how women's like men that people are kind there's also resource potential there's also beauty or. aesthetic attractiveness in males and females etc male male female female as the case may be but in terms of reproductions per mag male female obviously so we're selecting for a number of traits but presumably subconsciously we are also selecting for a number of traits related to vigor and in the idea that if we were to have offspring with somebody that those traits would be selected for right and we actually have a work on that in nematos that I'll be happy to tell you about initially. And then we will be the dating and the dating in warms and where we understand the mechanism and we'll go into that in a second but or in a few minutes after we we we dive into the warms but but yes the original calculations of how population genetics work to simplify things and to do the math so it will be is it was random mating of course it doesn't work like that so it's complicated things because we know and there's research about potential. capacity to somehow sense immune compatibility and things like this which is I don't know i'm not an expert on that but neither am I but my understanding is that of course we're familiar with the other traits we select for like potential nurturing ability whether or not someone is reliable predicts something about their nurturing ability and for offspring potential I mean that you can draw lines between these things without any direct evidence but but they seem so logical right that somebody kind of I'd also stick around or be honest and these kinds of things that it makes sense. But that one would be selecting for certain biological traits like a munifunction or some other form of robustness that we're not aware of is I think a fascinating fascinating area of biology yeah so so this is where the the the work in nematos stand however there's also one additional thing to mention which is that. On top of chemical modifications to the DNA and and the potions that condense the DNA which are called histone there are also other mechanisms that might transmit information including transmission between generations of RNA. And there are different types of RNA not just the RNA that we mentioned before the messenger RNA which. In codes for the information for making potent but also other RNAs that regulate gene expression and this is and I think that in recent years also in the mammalian field RNA as the molecule that has the potential to transmit information between generation took center stage so I think this is the cutting edge. And a lot more to understand the know but RNA has a lot of potential for doing that as we'll explain soon but we have to go to warms first. I'd like to just take a brief moment and thank one of our podcast sponsors which is inside tracker inside tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. Long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that blood work is the only way that you can monitor the markers such as hormone markers lipids metabolic factors etc the impact your immediate and long term health. One major challenge with blood work however is that most of the time it does not come back with any information about what to do in order to move the values for hormones metabolic factors lipids etc into the ranges that you want. With inside tracker changing those values becomes very straightforward because it has a personalized dashboard that you can use to address the nutrition based behavior based supplement based approaches that you can use in order to move those values into the ranges that are optimal for you your vitality and your longevity inside tracker now includes a measurement of apolipoprotein B so called apob and their ultimate plan apob is a key marker of cardiovascular health and therefore there's extreme value to knowing your apob levels. If you'd like to try inside tracker you can go to inside tracker dot com slash huberman to get 20% off any of inside trackers plans again that's inside tracker dot com slash huberman to get 20% off. Thank you for that incredible overview of genetics and RNA and epigenetics and was essentially a survey of this very interesting and on the face of it complex field but you've simplified it a great deal for us. In our transition to talking about worms I would like to plant a flag in the in the huberman lab podcast and say that what we are about to discuss is the first time that anyone on this podcast has discussed so called model organisms I may have mentioned a fly paper here there or a study on honey bees and caffeine and flower preference at one point but typically that's done in passing and we quickly rotate to humans. I know that many if not most of our listeners are focused on humans and human biology and health etc but I cannot emphasize enough the importance of model organisms and the incredible degree to which they've informed us about human health especially when it comes to very basic functions and cells right I mean one could argue okay there and there's been some debate telomeres and mice to that really lead to the same sort of data and humans okay there are these those cases certainly but model organisms are absolutely critical. Absolutely critical and have been in basically informed most of what we understand about human health so before we start to go into the description about worms per se could you just explain to the general audience what a model organism is right they're not modeling they're not posing for photographs obviously what what that means and what some of the general model organisms are and why you've. Selected or elected to work on a particular type of worm to study these fascinating topics that in there's zero question also take place in humans at some level. So it's a real pleasure and an honor to represent the model organisms here I'm really happy just for that this is was worth it because as you said model organisms are extremely important and we learned so much about about biology through them. The model organisms mean that it's an organism that many people work on so there's a community of people that work on people work study many types of organism but not around every organ is there's a huge community of researchers that come this combined sources to create all the resources the tools and understanding that accumulate. There's just a handful of model organisms in the in the short history of the field of biology it's not so long we learned about every aspect of biology through them including many important diseases human diseases and these are. E. coli bacteria phage which is a virus of bacteria. And flies. Worns they're called the elegance nematosis is what we study in the lab. Fish which are called the buffish the particles Danny O Danny Overson right yeah and and of course there are also model organisms other might be the mouse. And and also plants important plants the most studies one is the are a bit of this and perhaps less so nowadays but non human primates macaque monkeys armor set squirrel monkeys. These I don't know exactly how to definition is but emerging model organisms there are many or model organisms that are emerging and their communities that are formed including also around the planaria that we mentioned before this flatworm that regenerates is a great model for studying. Regenerations if we could develop new heads would be incredible and we can learn from these organisms and the reason that we can learn a lot also about humans by studying these animals is that we all evolved from the same answer stone so we shared we shared we share a lot of our. Our functions with them and also a lot of our genes. See elegance and they have the different model organisms have different advantages that serve us they they sometimes have some things that are much more apparent in them that we can study for example learning and memory was largely studied in the beginning in a snail a plesia when many of the discoveries were made because it has big nois that you can easily study and. And an exam and yes snails learn as they learn even see elegance the these nematodes that we study learn and they are much simpler the another important reason to study them of course you can actually experiment on them we can't do these to humans the things that we do to these animals and and we can change your genes. The work kinds of things for them and in some sorry interrupt but in some cases think you're going to tell us for instance and see elegance in particular they what the presence of particular cells types is so stereotype that you can look at several different worms and you can. The community of people that study see elegance is literally numbered and named each neuron so that two laboratories on opposite sides of the world can publish papers on the same neuron knowing that it's the same neuron and the two different laboratories something that is extremely hard to do in any mammalian model mouse or certainly in humans and as posed huge challenges that give great advantages to studies of things like see elegance. So see elegance is the star now of what and this what we study these are nematodes small worms round worms that are just one millimeter long so you can see them with the naked eye you have to look under the scope where do they live in the in the natural world so. They used to call them so in them I thought but this is not really true there are in many places but they're mostly in rotten fruits and leaves and you can find them in the ground as well but you can also find them and there are free leaving so they're not parasites but you can sometimes also find them in snails but but the best way to isolate is from rotten fruits. I like the idea that they're not parasites I want these people to get to the little screen issue about the notion of parasites yeah so they're not parasites they're really fun to handle because so small and easy you just wrote them on plates with egg and equalize bacteria this is what they eat in the lab you can just pick them with the. With a small pick wire pick move them around and change their genes and do many things on them but they have many advantages for neuroscience and for studying inheritance as you mentioned they have always a certain number of cells in the body so see elegance nematode always has 959 cells in its body that's it okay not 916 not 958 959 okay and. Out of which 300 and 2 are neurons always 300 there's a huge debate now over Twitter on whether it's 302 or 300 I mean I don't want to get into trouble okay but people take this very very. Hard I think it's a hundred two but we let's not get into it because I'll get into trouble we can equilibrate all things here by you say 300 to granted your farm were informed in the small organism that I am wherever will be I'll say 300 and then we're balanced in terms of partisan politics and the c elegance. So so it's always the same and each no one has a name like you said and we know not only does every no one has a name many of them we know what they do. So there's a few cells that are sensory neurons that sense particular chemicals in certain situations will know that a chemical will be sent just by one no one. There are other motor neurons and internal know that we know how many dopamine neurons there and so on in our and we know them all by their name not only that we know how they are connected to one another we have a map a connect on since the 80s. Like a subway map tells us which no one talks with which other no and it is the same. It was used to think people thought it was exactly the same between genetically agentical warms now we know that our slide differences but by loud it is the same and we have a map a road map that we can use to study the so called connect on the connect on not only that the warms are transparent. So we can actually see the no one's fire using particular tools and we can activate genes and silence genes using optogenetics like was discussed in the podcast we can make the warms go forward or backward or lay a neck by shining different waves of light of light on them. So we have very powerful tools for manipulating the brain on top of that we have great understanding of the genetics of the war of the genome this is silences the first animal to have its secret genome sequence before you for that of course the verb bacteria and we know that in each warm produces each mother produces about 250 babies. So we can see the same things which are almost genetically identical. So we can and we know what we get where we grow them the environment is very controlled so we grow them in the plate with just bacteria so we can easily separate between nature and nurture. So we can see that I wonder about often is generation time you know even though mice are not humans mice have certain advantages because they're mammalian species you can't do all the magnificent things you can do and see all against mice but one major issue with mice is that the generation time is somewhat long you pair two mice they made you get a mouse or litter of mice 21 days later might seem like okay that's only 21 days or so but if you are a graduate student or postdoc trying to do a project I mean that can extend the time. The time to do experiments out three or four years compared to what you could do in CLE your absolutely right this is one of the major advantages the generation time in CLE can see three days three days so you can do hundreds of war generations in one PhD this is very important not only that every warm will produce hundreds of progeny so you will have that are genetically identical so you will have great statistics for your experiment and the worms probably don't mind living on these agar plates you know munching away on E. coli where it's the good life. You know it's a questionable whether or not mice or certainly listen I I'm a proponent of well controlled over and as long as there's oversight animal research it's necessary for the development of treatments of diseases that that under humans but it is always a little bit of a kind of a cringe and go kind of thing when you're dealing with with mammals that are living so far outside their natural environment you know I'd be lying if I didn't say that it gets to you after a while and if it doesn't get to you you kind of have to wonder about your own psyche a bit. Right I also think that this is important but for me it's much easier to work on worms I don't have to you know feel bad about it yeah they're happy they're happy and you also I mean if a if a warm dies it's less painful to the human than if a and other more sensitive animals yeah I would argue yes I agree yeah so yes there so there are many advantages for studying CLE and in the warm we now have very obvious and clear cut proof that there is inheritance of acquired trades so much so that I don't think that anyone pretty much in the epigenetic field argues against it. Well and in large part thanks to you in the work you've done so could you tell us what was the first experiment that you did on c elegans that confirmed for you. That there is inheritance of acquired trades because of course the best experiments and experimenters always set out to disprove their hypothesis and when the hypothesis survives despite all the control experiments and poking and prodding and. Attempts to contradict oneself then it's considered a victory but it's one that you have to we all have to be very cautious about enjoying because of the tendency to want our hypotheses to be true so what was the first experiment where you were convinced that inheritance of acquired trades is real. The first experiment I did was when I in my postdoc which I did with Oliver Hopper in University of Columbia and we set to test whether worms can produce transgenerational for long multiple generations resistance to viruses. This is a very pertinent topic which is a relevant day and and worms these worms don't have dedicated immune cells like we do they don't have t cells or b cells they defend themselves from viruses very efficiently using RNA so in fact when we started this experiment there wasn't any natural virus that was known to infect c elegans which is amazing because viruses are very good as we all experience now in infecting. And the worms are resistant to viruses because of RNA molecules short RNA molecules that destroy viruses and these are called smaller nays now we need to discuss them for I explain my experiment. In 2006 two researchers that were studying c elegans and Rafael and Craig Melog got the Nobel Prize for showing that there is a mechanism that regulates genes that happens for smaller nays but they've shown it that if you inject the worms with RNA molecules which are double-stranded they lead to the site to they shut off the genes that correspond that match in sequence to this RNA. So sort of like taking the specific instructions for the coffee table from your Ikea handbook and you insert a copy of that into the book and in doing so you prevent the expression of sort of erase the original page. Perfect explanation perfect explanation. And for for they found that double-strand RNA RNA that was two strands is what starts the response leading to the production of small RNA molecules which are the ones that actually find the messenger RNA and leads to its destruction silences so you don't get proteins in the end. For that they got the Nobel Prize after people found that this is conserved in many organisms including humans and now they're now drugs this was only in 2006 that the Nobel Prize paper was published in 98. They are now drugs that use this mechanism also in humans. And I'll just interject and say that not only is it a recent discovery in an incredibly important one but Andy fire and Craig Melor are also really nice people. Yeah they just have to be very nice people and Craig Mel is an excellent I think he's a kite surfer when I said that only time I met him in person was at a meeting in a black eye and I thought okay wow I guess he's also a pugilist or something but turns out he had done that kite surfing. So scientists actually do things other than go to the laboratory Nobel Prize winning scientist that is okay I'll let you continue thanks for allowing that. Yeah incredible scientists and there were also studies in many organisms on the mechanisms of how this happens it is called RNA interference RNA interferes in the expression of a gene in the in the function of a gene. And it's also called gene silencing because these RNAs enforce the silencing of genes instead of the genes being expressed they are silenced and you don't manifest a function. Already in the first paper that they published about this where they've shown the double standard is what leads to the silencing of the control they've shown two very important things one of them is that if you inject the worms with double standard RNA. You don't only see the action in the cell that you injected or in the tissue that you injected but you see it all over the worms body it spreads. It wasn't exactly clear what spreads it was clear that it spreads you see the silencing all over the body this includes also the germ cells. You inject the double standard RNA just to somatic cells even to the head you will get also the effect in the germ cells and in the next generation. Okay in the immediate core gene in the f1 generation the kids. So this was really clear proof that this is inherited however this is just one generation okay in this original study. Later that shown something which will immediately remind you what I told you about with planaria that you can just take worms and feed them on bacteria that produce this double standard RNA. And that the double send and the silencing would move from the site of ingestion from the gut where the bacteria are eaten to the rest of the body and also to the next generation. Okay so before we left when I mentioned this cannibalistic experiments of meconel with the planaria and now you see that it can happen and and this is not controversial at all this is being done routinely every day by any c elegance biologist in the world. This has been replicated a million times not only that you can also feed planaria these other worms with RNA you can just put it in shopped liver and let them eat it and again this will sign in just throughout the body. Wild okay and this is what we do routinely we always when we want we use this technique to see what genes do. If we want to see whether particular genes important for a certain behavior or a certain something. The way to study is to neutralize the gene activity and we do it by just introducing the worms with double standard RNA that correspond in sequence that match in sequence this gene this will lead to the silencing this activated genes activity and then we and if then the effect stops we know this gene is involved in the function and we never want to just examine one one. So we feed the mother with double standard RNA and then we examine all of its children so we can have the statistics over hundreds of worms of thousands of words. So this is validated and not controversial in all and totally routine is it fair to say that mcconnell's experiments of shop blending up these worms the graphic image blending up these worms and then feeding them to other worms planaria that those experiments can yes be explained by the way. We explained by double standard RNA which and through RNA inter here potentially it hasn't been done yet we are working on it in my lab now in collaboration with other labs that it wasn't published but yes this could be the explanation. So so fire and mellow did these experiments some other people did this experiments when I started my work and wanted to see whether in addition to artificial double standard RNA some natural traits can can also transmit across generations because of RNA because of smaller and is right because injecting RNA I or in interpret shorter and freeing RNAs that is or you know putting. Worms into an environment with an abundance of inhibitory RNAs as an experiment is very different than worms experiencing something and then passing on that acquired trait to their offspring and it's a world apart in my opinion is one extreme manipulation that illustrates an underlying principle the other is something that in theory occurs in the passage of and of generations just naturally we're going from the less artificial to the more artificial. The advantages just like with model organisms that the more artificial it is the is it is to you know exactly what you did just now introduce one factor and you can follow the result so this is always the trade what I did was in all of us lab is to see whether the magic part of the magic for the worms resistance to viruses is the capacity to transmit information in the form of RNA molecules in the hibitorial and molecules to the next generations. And it has been shown before in see elegance that the worms resist viruses be using this mechanism this smaller and is in fact this is probably the reason that this smaller and is evolved in the first place to get rid of virus and other parasitic genomic elements and this is a mechanism to fight them. And what I did is a very simple experiment I took worms and I infected them with a virus when you do this this also has been shown in the past the worms destroyed the virus. We demonstrated this very clearly using a fluorescent virus so when if the if the virus replicates successfully the worms has turned green and if the virus is destroyed the worms stays black. This is very simple it's a clear cut it's not this you don't examine the worm and ask whether it feels good you just see this green light binary response yes. And so we took worms we infect them with the fluorescent virus they destroyed this also has been done in the past but then what we did is we neutralized the machinery that makes smaller anase in the descendants of the worms. So they cannot make smaller anase from the start on their own because they just don't have the genes that you need to make this more. And then we ask when we will what will happen will we affect these worms with the virus will they be green or black they can't make their own smaller anase so they can protect themselves on their own the only way for them to stay black for them not having the virus replicate is if they inherit a smallerness from the fence. And this is exactly what happens all the worms progeny although they don't have the gene. That is needed for making the smaller anase are black they signed the vows and this also continues for additional generations. So the parent worms effectively put something into the genetic instructions of the offspring that would afford them this is what's called an advantage in this case for them an advantage if they were to be confronted with the same thing that the parents were. Right and we know exactly what is advantage is that the advantage is our small RNAs that match the viral genome and just chop up the virus in the next generation and we can identify the smaller anase in the in the computer RNAs in the descendants until they don't have the machinery to make it just because in her we can identify them by sequencing by RNA sequencing which is like DNA sequencing you actually. And we can see that they call us onto the house and they have the inheritance smaller anase only their parents were infected with them so there's specificity there this specific yeah it's not some just general resilience passage right I have to be careful in drawing an analogy that isn't correct and I want to acknowledge that what I'm about to say with certainty cannot be entirely correct but the analogy that comes to mind in mammals is this idea that if one generation is stressed that there are all. So I think that's the way they're stressed that they're off spring may in some cases have a higher stress threshold the resilience to stress I could imagine why that would be advantageous right parents have a hard life they have offspring and they want their children to have a higher threshold to stress because stress can inhibit reproduction et cetera and I always say you know at the at the end of the day and at the end of life evolution is about the offspring not about the parents and every species pretty much seems to want to make more of itself and protect it's young one way or another either. So I think that's the way it's going to be in the nature of nature in nature this is a nature based protection of young is it fair to say that in the mammalian experiment with passage of stress resilience that it could be RNA based that that would be perhaps set something threshold on glucocorticoid production here I'm speculating but I and I want to highlight that I'm speculating I'm speculating with a reason which is I think for people that are hearing about this in worms but to think about how this may operate in our in the passage of human generations I think is a reasonable thing to entertain right and it is true that also in the mammals now RNAs and smaller and is our lending candidates for something that could mediate the transmission of stress protection or also harmful effects that transmit between generations perhaps RNA do it however in worms the RNAs have one more trick that we don't have to we don't know the equivalent in mammals yet this is something very crucial that we showed in that particular paper in the first paper which is so the effect that I described this transmission of resistance of viruses through these RNAs doesn't only affect the next generation it also affect multiple additional generation so it gets passed it's get passed and you have to ask yourself how does it get diluted why why isn't it diluted right because I mean everyone produces 250 babies so you dilute by 250 and if something is diluted for four generations so it's 250 times 250 after four generations it's a dilution of four billions completely or myopathic would never work okay it's just there's nothing left the secret of these worms is that they have a machinery for amplifying the smaller and age in average generation okay this is called RNA dependent RNA polymerase it's a complex which uses the RNA to find and once it finds the messenger RNA it just create many many many many smaller and age so they don't get diluted and they pass on for additional generations and this is the trick we later also identify genes that regulates for how long an effect would last otherwise I mean if in the beginning we ask why does how does it need to stop after one generation now we have to ask why does it need less forever and it doesn't typically we see that the responses last not only with the valorsis but also with other traits for a few generations free to five generations we found genes that function as a sort of a clock the times the duration of the inheritance what sorts of genes are those so we call these genes motoc genes motoc I don't know how is your Hebrew but motoc it means sweetheart in Hebrew but the acronym is modified trans generation alepid genetic in head there are different types of genes like that and for some of them if you mutate if you disrupt their function now now the effect would transmit stably for hundreds of generations it would never stop because their role is to stop the inheritance from going from from just don't want to carry over something forever otherwise you would it will no longer fit the environment of the parents and you'll be prepared for the wrong things so this is important there are what type of genes are they one genes that we studied it's called meto it's actually a gene that functions in matilation of the of the proteins that condensate DNA so this is and there are but when there are other genes that affect also poor dachshund of smaller anise is there some mechanism that controls the duration of passage in a way that logically links up with the lifespan of the organism so for instance I knew my grandparents met them I did not ever meet my great grandparents and I certainly didn't meet my great great grandparents I could imagine that my great great grandparents or my great grandparents experienced certain things that were passed into their children and perhaps into their children but it seems reasonable given that humans live somewhere between zero and a hundred years typically what now 80 years that the typical lifespan more or less okay that the if I were going to design the system and again I was not consult the design phase I would want an adaptive trait to be passed for two generations because given the way that are given how long our species lives and certainly given the way the world looks now as opposed to the turn of the previous century different stressors different adapt different life environments and what I would want to pass on to my offspring I can basically hedge pretty well I can place a good bet on the next hundred years maybe the next 200 but I don't have the foggy as clue what the world is going to look like in 300 years is what I'm saying make any sense what so I'm going to talk about two things in response to this question first of all and yes you can imagine that the reason that the worms in her typically for three to five generations is that this is relevant to something that happened in her for example and we also show that when you stop the worms it affects the next generations again for a few generations which itself is amazing I just like want to highlight that that I mean you can imagine next generation sort of like a genetic version of be careful kids but I'm going to give you this extra lunch pack in your genome that protects you against the possibility of starvation but it's also saying and we're you to have kids right so they have it also yeah so I have to but just I have to just make a disclaimer that we know don't know that necessarily it's adaptive could also be damaged as I said when you start them the next generations live longer but this could be a trade of of a trade of for fertility or something so other labs is also a virtual shown following our work that if you start the worms the next generations are also more resistance to how she'll starvation these sounds this is not my artwork but these sounds adapt but when whenever you're talking about the patient you have to see it in the context of evolution there's also this famous saying nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution and so it's very hard to say without doing the lab evolution experiments we actually see who wins the ones that inherit or the ones who don't who takes over otherwise it's hard to talk about whether it's adaptive look but when it comes to the duration of the response yes it could be programmed to fit something for example if you're talking about starvation worms transition between periods of starvation and trans periods where they have a lot of food so let's say they sign an apple for a few generations that will consume the apple and then they will be start for a while perhaps this is the number of generations that takes them to finish an apple or perhaps there are other responses also to higher temperatures if you grow worms in higher temperatures are often for different they change how they made so I'm I looked it to before we're going to get back to this is a relates to cold exposure which many listeners are and perhaps it is somehow coiled with the cycle of the year okay but to tell you the truth I don't know as I said we we go from the more artificial to the less artificial if double-strand RNA just synthetic RNA is the most artificial starvation is more artificial in more natural but it's not starvation in real the real context of the world in a real apple is it's a plate with or without equal bacteria it's not an apple on a tree exposed to the elements with other worms with bacteria with all kinds of complications and it could be that we will see different durations of heritable effects the more natural we go with just much less controllable and hard to do and again when we're talking about humans part of the argument why people were the disbelievers it's not about safe you know the critics say that this wouldn't happen in humans is they say you know the worms generation time is just three days the chances that the parents environment will match the children's environment is very high because there's not a lot of time to for for the environment to change it plus they can go very far small there are many examples of epigenetic inheritance in plants this is a big field where there are very established proof for inheritance of acquired rates for for epigenetic and has to be more careful epigenetic and In herzo crisis more loaded than but in plants it also happens and there you also say these are Cessile organisms they can't run away so the environment is more constant well ideas Maybe just a quick example that I've heard before tell me if I'm wrong. I very well maybe For instance a particular species of plant that grows a straight maybe slightly-bended stock might be exposed to some environment where in order to capture enough um Sunlight and other other nutrients might need to grow in a quartz screw form the quartz screw form can be inherited several generations for this is an example that I don't know But perhaps it's something like that. I seem to someone will tell trust me the one thing we know about Podcasting and YouTube is someone will tell us in the comments so And please do we invite that right, but there's a long history of epigenetic inheritance studies in plants with excellent studies Well-controlled showing that it happens also there. So this is very clear It when it comes to humans you could say maybe my kids will go off to live in a different continent and They will be on the computer every day and everything will be different So it makes less sense to prepare them for the same hardships that I experienced however This in my opinion this is this argument comes a lot. It's not the best argument because it depends on the scale Of how you look at things we experience we meet for example I'm not saying that this is inherited but in humans, but we experience the same pathogens in the same Vios is all the time so perhaps it's worth preparing for that right again I'm not saying that that it happens but but it depends on the on the on the scale Well, what you're describing makes perfect sense and I do want to acknowledge these critics whoever they may be I do have the advantage that I don't work in this exact field and so I'm I'm happy to stand Toto to with those critics now and say that at least in terms of an inheritance of reactions or Adaptive or maladaptive traits to stress or to reward you talked about nicotine before you know a passage of response to drugs of different kinds Not being specific to nicotine. It was sort of a more general passage of of some sort of information related to reactions to chemicals present in nicotine but other other drugs I Have long been irritated um and a little bit tickled by the fact that people say oh you know we have this system for stress that was really designed to keep us You know safe from lions and saber-toothed tigers sure But the hallmark of the stress system is that it generalizes I mean if I get a troubling text message or if I suddenly see a dark figure in that in the hallway when I go to the bathroom at night that I don't recognize Both of those have the same generic response which is the deployment of adrenaline Of in both brain and body you know changes in the optics of the eyes quickening of the heart rate stress is by design generic And so one could imagine that a passage of some sort of stress resilience Um or a maladaptive passage to stress would be also somewhat generic and that's actually advantageous overall same thing with the reward system You know and we have essentially have one or two chemical systems of reward I mean there's the opioid system and there's a kid can have anoint system But in large part anticipation and reward is governed by the dopamine circuits and anticipation reward of an ice cream cone for a kid is the same Neural circuitry that's going to be repurposed when they get to reproductive age and they are anticipating creating children with their mate And assuming they want to do that the dopaminergic system is going to be engaged. So ice cream sex You know Stress to weather stress to famine that the biology of these more modal systems and especially in the nervous system are Again, I have to be careful with the words by design are certainly generic and so I don't see the need for so for immense specificity. I mean, it's not like where um Well, COVID just happened. So could you imagine that there's the passage of a a COVID-19 specific resilience? No, I think what would probably be Um past along would be some sort of if it does occur would be some sort of resilience to viruses more generally And that would be advantageous right. So I agree and this This opens a question of what is the bandwidth of inheritance? How specific can it be that it makes sense for it to be specific and In the case of C elegance the response can be very specific through this inheritance of RNAs Which are just sequence specific they down regulate the the control one particular gene Okay With other cases it could be a very general response and and and and it's very interesting to think about it when we talk about Inheritance of Memoies, which is the most interesting thing we could imagine can Brain activity of some sort transmit at least in these words. I said No, I said it's a disclaimer multiple times in in members. We don't know times will tell In worms we know a lot So can worms transmit brain activity to do they have the specificity to do it? Okay Before I'll say that I just say that we over the years learned a lot about the mechanisms that shuttle the RNAs between generations We know about genes that are needed just for that About worms will be perfectly okay, but just don't have the capacity to transfer the RNAs to the next generations We know about genes that will make the responses longer or shorter We know about genes that prevent the transfer of RNA between different issues About genes that make certain smaller than it so we know a lot about that and then the question arises we can we can finally ask Can memory transfer between generation? I think that first of all we need to define memory for that and the broadest definition would be any Change in your behavior because of what happened in the past or in your response because what happened in the past or because of your history The more interesting part of course is to talk about memories that are encoded in the brain And the reason is that the brain is capable of holding much more specific and elaborate memories Then I think that any tissues that transmit transfer To transfer RNA to the next generation and affect the next generation is interesting the gods muscles everything but the brain can synthesize information about the environment and about Internal state and can also think ahead and the most provocative thing you can say is that you could plan how somehow The fate of your nation of your nation using your brain You know after taking anything since it's about talking to them right without talking right and instruction So it's again, we go back to this instruction manual. It's like writing something into an instruction manual based on your own experience Right and can it happen? Okay, and what is the bandwidth can we transfer specific things and And then I have to agree with you that I would imagine that what can transfer and I could be wrong is a general something sensitivity Okay We can make the analogy to being inflamed or not hypersensitive to pathogens hypervigil something okay, but it can also be something very specific We now we have to we have to understand that the brain uses a different language Then the language of inheritance the brain the way we normally think about the brain is that it keeps information in Signups in the connections between different neurons when you learn something you make you make some connections stronger and some Another connections weaker and you wire the nervous system in a different way The information in the brain is synaptic and it is in the connections on the other hand Heritable information of any sort has to go through a bottleneck of one cell the fertilized egg Because we all start from just one cell So it cannot be in the connections because this cell doesn't have any connections without the cell it's very long So we do so heritable information has to be molecular it has to be inside this one cell So the question is can you or do you translate the information this free-distracture information of Synapses and the connection between brains in the architecture of the brain? Can you somehow translate it to heritable information to a molecular form? It's an incredibly important and deep question It brings to mind something that was once told to me which as soon as I heard it was obvious But was very important in formulating my Understanding a biology which is that a map is just the transformation of one set of points into another set of points, right? So a map of the world essentially is just you take the What's been drawn out in terms of the architecture and the coastlines etc And the visions between states and you transfer that to an electronic map or a piece of paper seems so obvious It's sort of a duh why are we talking about this? But just to make sure that people understand what you're really talking about is let's say the memory And I have a very distinct memory for my childhood phone number phone number doesn't exist anymore And I won't give it out because then some other person might get you with repeated calls But in any case I remember it. It's totally useless information But it lives in my you know cortex or my hippocampus or somewhere as a series of connections between neurons at the locations as you call synapses Would my grandchildren know that phone number? There's no reason no no right would my children know that unless there was some adaptive Reason or some other reason for them to know and the and this passage of acquired traits um, and what you're saying is In order for that to happen There has to be a transformation of the neural circuit literally the wiring of neuron a b cd that relates to Encourage the information that number into the kind of nucleotide sequences that are contained in dna or patterns of methylation or RNA more likely So it's the transformation of one set of points in physical space to a translation of points in genetic space Right, that makes right and then we have many problems when first of all we don't know a mechanism to translate between the two different languages The language of the brain and the language of the head We are not familiar with a mechanism Second the next generation If it's not a worm if it's a mammal would have a different brain If and if it's if even if it was genetically identical to the parrot The the wiring of the brain and the Particular neuron of circuits will be different This is true for twins It will always be true because it depends because it's partially random and it depends on the environment Even if you have the same genetic instructions So let's say you somehow had a mechanism A miracle mechanism to take the 3D information and translate it to the magic to the language of inheritance You would then in the next generation have to translate it again to the brain although it is different This sounds very unlikely I'm playing a trick on you now, okay? I believe it. Okay, but it's easy to trick But but if this is how it happened Or if this was required it could never happen in my opinion Which means and I still think that there are certain memories that cannot transfer Transgeneration and these complex and things that you learn about the environment that are betray If I and none of our listeners kids will remember this conversation No way this is impossible unless they're listening There are some families or parents that tell me that listen right but but but it cannot transmit because it's it's Random and it's these are connections that are arbitrary So this seems to be a limitation on what can transfer On the other hand So perhaps more general things could pass Some these types of things I doubt take it however you can never the less imagine that some things that are very specific Some memories that are very very specific could nevertheless transmit from the brain after learning to the next generation I'll give you an example You can teach worms even if although they have just 300 to neurons you can teach them simple things about the world For example, you can take an auto that they're worms like the worms have Thousands of auto interceptors and they can recognize many many many molecules They can smell them so they can find food or avoid enemies You can take a food that the worms like and auto that the worms like and pair it to something bad like starvation And then the worms we learn to dislike this auto We don't know that this learning involves necessarily Changing in the strengths of signups as it's a possibility But it doesn't have to be the case it could be that just the receptor for this particular auto is being removed When they and this is how they live now they won't have the receptor they won't smell they won't like the auto. This is a possibility This type of thing you can perhaps Not that anyone has showed it convincingly transmit to the next generation because all it would take is an RNA that with Will control this particular receptor Okay, so this is a possible people have shown things like that not in c elegance, but people have shown things like that in mammals They said that you learn certain thing and then Just in the next generation does a particular receptor would be Metylated or would change and this would transmit the response and on the one hand it could be True on the other hand you need to understand they'll need to prove and this wasn't done convincingly enough yet How exactly does the information transfer from the brain to the germ cells and then in the next generation from the germ cells back to the brain to where the receptor need to operate And this is a challenge. This is the current state of Of the field that this is something that needs to be proven What we didn't see elegance is we showed that certain That the brain can communicate with the next generations using smaller nays And the disk can change behavior and it doesn't require any translating between any language It is very simple Why we've shown it that if you take a warm And you change the production of smaller nays just in its brain In the next generations their behavior will be different even though you don't mess with their brains This is a paper that we published in 2019 in cell we show that you just Manipulate the production of endogenous natural RNAs in the worms brain that are always made but you you change their Amount and this changes the capacity of the worms in the next generation to find food To find not only in one generation but three generations down the road And the way that it works is that Perthrobing the production of these smaller nays in the brain Effect in the end the expression of a gene in the germ One gene is called sage-2. Don't know how it works But we can do all kinds of controls where we manipulate activity of the gene in cilates also affects behavior And this gene Works in the germ cells the information needs to go from the brain to the germ cells It doesn't need to go back from the germ cells to the brain to affect behavior And this depends we know that this is a two epigenetic effect because it goes on for multiple generations and also because it requires the machinery The transfers RNAs between generations if you don't have that port in that physically carries the RNA between generation doesn't happen So it has to be RNA It has to be RNA and We can actually we can also find the RNAs in the next generation to change We sequence the actual RNAs that change in the next generation You mentioned that you don't know what sage this gene sage does But is it reasonable to assume that it does something in the context of the nervous system or that's unclear as well It is possible it is possible but we have reasons to believe or Experiments to show Although the could be alternative explanations that it functions for the germine Now you may ask how can you affect behavior just by changing the germ sense right well It would have to change the germ cells in very specific ways because as People probably recall the germ line the germ cells are Where the inheritable information is contained but you can imagine it for instance adjusting the gain or sensitivity rather on some sort of Sensory foraging system right right and the The interesting thing is that it again can be quite unspecific So It sounds weird that you change germ cells and it changes behavior Spare me but if you think about it is trivial if you castrate a dog it behaves differently right Sadly, yeah, I did that to my dog and I ended up putting him on testosterone therapy later and it brought him back Yeah, just as a as a side as an aside. Yes. This is because the germ cells affect the soma Including the brain in many ways by secreting Certain chemicals and also because this now understands developed developed from that from the germ cells So some information could be transmitted over development or the course of development could be altered because of changes That occurring in the germ cells and for example in memories one of the explanations And for how heritable information transmits is that it just affects something very own in development I I told you that the secrets to warms inheritance is that they have the capacity to amplify this smaller and as all the time This is what keeps it going and prevents the dilution In memories we don't know of such an amplification mechanism So you ask how can a little bit of RNA or something without amplifying affect landlain entire organism and it could be That you just perturb something in the very beginning And when you just have a few cells or even if they're in the placenta the develops In pregnancy and these later throws everything off and because of the US you have many problems in metabolism and so on And this is called the it's an idea of the developed developmental origin of health and disease many of the of the functions of care early on in development So you raise a number of incredibly fascinating aspects to this I do have a question about one particular aspect and feel free to pass on this for a future episode If it's going to take us too far off track But something you said or it really captured my attention Although I was listening to all of it which is that the germ cells so in the case of males It's going to be sperm in the case of females. It can be eggs Something Perhaps not coincidental about those cells in the environment that they live in is that yes They contain the genetic information and passed off spring right of course you explain how that works but also it's a Those cells live in a region that is rich with hormones that can be secreted and in fact are secreted and through so-called endocrine signaling communicate with Other cells not just at the level of receptors on their surface But also can enter the genomes of those cells and modify those cells in other words It seems to me that the micro environment to the germ cells the testes and the ovaries are rich with information not just for the passage to next generations But also for all the as you said all the somatic cells of the body They're telling the somatic cells of the body what to do and what to become and the best example I can think about this would be puberty Right, I mean, I would argue that the that one of the greatest rates of aging and and transitions we go through in life is from puberty I mean a child becomes a very different person after puberty They look at the world differently they think about it differently the growth of it's not just about the growth of the hair and the jaw and the atoms apple and breasts and so on It's a transformation of the somatic cells From the same micro environment that the DNA containing cells reside right so once you think about it like this It becomes obvious that just by affecting the germ cells you can affect the rest of the body And in sealagans there are experiments to show it very clearly so for example if you take just take warms and prevent sperm production It changes the capacity to smell These are experiments done by others Which is obviously a brain function And in a castrated dog you're not just eliminating the possibility of transfer of DNA information to subsequent Generations you're also limiting the person of yeah without question my bulldog Castella change after castration and it was a wonderful dog But at some point developed some health issues the introduction of a small amount of testosterone every other day Changed him fundamentally in that case for the better Back to a version of himself that I'd only observed earlier But also a different version of the same dog and no he wasn't humping everything maybe the occasional knee particular people who I was named as I won't mention but It was absolutely clear that the hormone was not just taking a system and amplifying it. It was actually modifying the system So anyway, I just wanted to highlight that and then now thank you for indulging me. Let's If you will let's continue down this path of That we were going on because I want to make sure that we absolutely get to this issue of transmission of information about sex choice of offspring So the warms are her muscle diets, which means that they make both sperm and an egg But they are also maids which are much more rare and they can choose to mate with their males or not And when they mate with the male it's a huge decision Because it's very costly energetically And they also risk predation And all kinds of troubles the males hurt them and reduce their lifespan when they mate with them People are going to draw all sorts of analogies here by it's inevitable, but hey here we go. Yes, so and Most importantly for evolution when you mate With another animal you dilute your genome in half Because the warms can just self-fertilize and transmit the exact same genome to the next generation But when they mate they dilute it in half. So this is a big Price to pay or the other hand and you mate you diversify all genome So maybe some combination of gene will be good and we know that in humans I mean, you know, it's kind of interesting that the brain circuits that are associated With a with a version and with approach are Fairly hardwired for a number of things like puddle of vomit almost everybody kind of cringes plate of cookies If you like cookies you move towards it, but there's one particular word in The English and pretty in the Israeli language that that ought to evoke disgust and that's incest because incest is actually Not just disgusting as a practice, but it's dangerous genetically, right? Because of the inbreeding creates a deleterious mutation So there are studies on how people in Israeli kibbutz for example where they all grow together the children live together It used to be like that. Don't date each other because this is the classic thing I talk to some of them the kibbutz is telling me that's not true But but yes that there are studies like this that say but it makes sense And in some countries Scandinavian countries or in a lapel and islamore populations are small They keep exquisite records of lineage in order to avoid inbreeding right? Right, so you're absolutely right, but the worms It's the safe choice for them is to self-made and and if they made with a male They take a risk, but they diverse What what we found is that if you take the hermaphrodite the we can call it the female for just one second And you stress it with high temperatures Then the next generations of worms for three generations made much more with males And they do it because in a female starts secreting a ferromon that attracts the males Ah, it's very cryptic mechanism It's not that she somehow changes and then goes seeking males. It's that it draws males And we know how it works. We think we know how it works What happens is that the stress their high temperatures Confirmize the production of sperm in the hermaphrodites So the hermaphrodite don't they make sperm enough to make make generations But the sperm because of defective small RNA inherited because RNAs are not inherited, okay The sperm is not made optimally so they make less sperm And when they don't make a lot of sperm They feel that they don't self-fertilize correctly So they call the males by secreting the ferromons so that it would provide its own sperm and they can continue to make babies Okay, and we know this also from experiments You just take hermaphrodites and you kill its sperm Start secreting the ferromon and the males come it's a need-based system exactly Incredible, and I hope people can appreciate as they're hearing this that None of this we assume I don't know how to speak worm None of this we assume is a conscious decision in these animals Much like human mating behavior which to us always seems so conscious But is being governed by both conscious and subconscious decision-making None of this is an active decision to secrete the hormone to draw in more males It's simply a biasing of probabilities right the hormone is now secreted in greater quantities or more Greater frequency the males therefore approach more so it's just increasing probability of interactions Is that right? Right what happens naturally normally if you don't stress the answers to us Is that the worm starts secreting the ferromon only when they are old? There's also no people will When they're running when they're running out of of their own fertility exactly because they only make the sperm at a particular time And then they run out of stealth sperm they can self-satellite so they have to call the males if they want to continue to make Well, there's this sort of the uh plastic surgery approach Okay, I'll take the heat for that one But you know, but it's true I think as as certain people age to a certain point and they feel that their fertility is waning If they want offspring they need to take any number of different approaches They could get a here we're talking about a female, but we could also do the reverse right if we do Spirm donor right or but if they want to attract a lifelong mate or co-parent with somebody oftentimes they will Do things to adjust their attractiveness in any number of different ways Psychological attractiveness or physical attractiveness. I'm not afraid to bring this up because I think that the parallels are very important because I do think that every Species and individuals within a species of course decides whether or not they want to reproduce or not But has an inherent understanding conscious or subconscious about where they reside in the arc of their lifespan I do believe that not just based on experience some people are very attuned to the passage of time being very fast other very slow I think that knowing how long your parents and their parents lived Makes a big difference. I have friends whose um Fathers in particular died fairly young and all these guys basically got married and had kids really young Right, so here the luckily for me I don't have to get into psychology of the worms the explanation is just like an instinct When they run out of sperm they start to kiddie the pheromones and attract the males There are studies also in humans about older fathers That children of older fathers have more has a higher chance of have of becoming autistic There are study 40 and up basically. However in this case it's not clear that this is not that this is something epigenetics could be just because of DNA Demons you know because it accumulates Yeah, and actually nowadays there we have an episode on fertility coming up both male and female fertility and there's There are actually DNA fragmentation kits first at home DNA fragmentation kits are sperm analysis You send the sperm back in you don't do the DNA people piped heading on Seeming at home would be an odd picture Let's not go there, but the um, but there are clinics that do this for for a nominal charge, but the um But it's yeah, I did want to ask about autism and human disease in particular Another thing that you hear sometimes in here. I want to acknowledge autism is on a spectrum Some people get upset if you call it a disorder There are some adaptive autistic traits and etc but one thing that Often comes up is this idea that two people who are more of the kind of engineering Hard science if you will of phenotype mate and have children higher probability of the offspring being on the spectrum Um some people would argue up, but that's already selecting for people that might have already been partially on the spectrum So maybe it's a gene copy issue. I'm not asking you to comment on autism in particular But when you hear things like that that the children of older fathers Um, born from older fathers tend the higher probability of autism What is that at the level of intuition does that strike you as an epigenetic phenomenon as a nature nurture Mishmash or the possibility that's RNA passage or anything does anything sort of um Trigger the whiskers your your your your spidey sense so in that case I would go with the most parsimonious explanation which is it just less Fidelity or evolve D in a less DNA maintenance and some damage that passes on it doesn't have to be an epigenetic thing But the sperm are generated at once every 60 days So the damage must be at the level of the germ cells not having the proper machinery Right might a conjurer or something or the DNA repair machine The DNA repair machine that it could be defective Or could work less well in older people leading to the constant production of germ cells with more mutation. This is the possibility. Do we know exactly what the DNA repair machinery is yes There are many types of DNA repair And those one that use other copies of the DNA to to To correct there are ones that just recognize all the kind of religions on the DNA And remove it that it's a very elaborate and complicated system And is it a system that is now tractable that can be Modified through pharmacology or through anything like that. So I know about drugs that correct that improve it Maybe they exist and I'm not aware that it's very well understood And many people are studying these types of yeah one thing that came across in the Exploration of the fertility work is that What I'm about to describe is not Legal in the US it is illegal, but is legal in the UK and in other countries is this notion of three-parent I have yeah where it does seem that some of the eggs that persist in older females don't Even if fertilized don't produce healthy embryos they have chromosomal abnormalities or replications and Deletions that are problematic for the development of the embryo Such as trisomy 21 aka down syndrome In part or in large part because of deficits in the mitochondrial genome So what they now do is they take the Because the mitochondrial genome resides mainly in the cytoplasm They'll take the an egg from the mother the sperm from the father But they'll take the nucleus from the mother And put that into a cytoplasm of a younger woman whose mitochondrial DNA is healthy Then use the sperm to fertilize that egg and egg and that's why it's called three-parent IVF Then implant that into the mother and this has been done several times for in cases of mitochondrial damage or Or mutations in the in the mother it works the question is whether or not those offspring will grow up to be healthy So this of course is not just a pure divergence it raises a bigger question that I have for you which is In terms of the work in either c elegans Or in other model organisms but in particular in c elegans Where do you see this going next and if you would indulge us? I would love you to tell us a little bit about the admittedly unpublished work that you're doing on temperature Uh exposure and environments. I mean how malleable is this system because to me it just seems incredibly malleable Um and yet a lot of us still cloaked off to us. There's still a ton to learn. So Assuming that we will discover Similar things in in humans which we don't know that this is the case, but let's say we we find I think there are many things you can do before you change it And for example You could you could also change it change change a Abarant inheritance by having the the parent exercise for example and some things like this have been done for example There are experiments in in rodents where it showed that overfeeling the The rodents creates problems for the next generations for the for the children However, if you let the the rodent exercise then it corrects the aberrant in heaven. So this is one possibility And you can also manipulate it at At the source you can change if it's RNAs. Let's say you could in the future perhaps if we understand how it works Actually change the composition of the heritable RNAs by eating RNAs just like the worms. I run a sandwich So the RNA sandwich will be difficult because it's not I don't know But but you could if you do ibs if you do any bit of utilization you can perhaps Change the composition of the RNAs in the the stuff that you introduce But way before that what you could do perhaps even in the not so far future is Use this for diagnostics DNA based the diagnostics for every couple that wants to have a kid You can in Israel this is done for for most couples you can look at the DNA and look for Genetic disease But no one look is looking at the RNA at the moment if we understand how it works better We'll have another level a whole new world to look at and perhaps there will be some RNAs that correlate with disease That they will say okay, you know but the beauty is that this unlike DNA it's plastic So with DNA this is your DNA perhaps we can choose another embryo But here you could say Perhaps or again in the future this is science fiction doesn't happen now If we understand this and it's true we can say Maybe you should run on the treadmill a little bit just will change the profile of your RNAs And then we will use it for IVF This seems more because just it correlates with healthy profiles of RNAs This is a level that no one looks at now and holds great potential Again with a disclaimer that we know know how it works in humans at all. Yes Well, of course, it's why why why so interesting? Yeah, it's super interesting Incredibly promising so along the lines of things that one can do in the short term and Your experiments on C elegans I'd love for you to share with us that what you're observing about Cold exposure and how that impacts subsequent generations of C elegans and And if you would indulge us with the story of this discovery Like some of the earlier stories you told us it is a surprising and fascinating one and let me tell you about this Not a story about trans generation I have it's a story about memory within one generation. Oh excuse me Within one generation okay And and as you said the story about how it happens is it's it's totally by accident It's a funny story and I'm bringing this up because I know Dana Lenshaft is a huge fan of your post-ghost really you know be happy That this is her work. This is her work. And this is unpublished work It's even we didn't even finish it so we're working on it. Okay. Well when it's published we will feature the paper because I love this story great, so so What happened is that when you we talked about trans generation and memories and I said that in worms There are very long trans generation and memories if a if a generation time for C elegans was three days some memory is less for Many generations so way beyond the the lifespan of the of the worm the lifespan of the worm is three weeks Okay, generally you have a new generation that we three days, but every worm lives for three weeks But there's a lot of research that shows that unlike heritable memory which can be very long The memory that the worms acquired during the lifetime is very short lived So if you teach something after two hours it forgets Okay, so for example you can teach the worm You can take an auto that it likes and pair it with starvation and then it with dislike the auto And then there's a simple test you just put it in a plate You put the the auto in one side and a control auto in the other side and you see whether it prefers this auto or not And it stops preferring it okay There's 30 years or more of research 40 years of research on on this showing that the worms forget after two hours The reason I went to study C elegans is that I wanted to understand memory Okay, because such a simple nervous system you say maybe I have the potential to actually understand how it works But this is slightly disappointing because they forget after two hours. So what is it exactly? Okay My idea was and I tried to convince students to do it for 10 years Is to take the worms teach them this association to dislike the auto that they innately like and then just Put the worms in minus 80 and freeze them Freeze them completely Throw them and see whether they still remember after their thought the Han Solo experience and and I didn't want to do it because I Cryo preservation or something like this I wanted to do it because as you know better than me many theories about memory say that you need electrical activity to maintain the memory Need to reverberate it in the brain during dreams or replay of the thing or whatever and if the memories will nevertheless be kept even though the worms Were frozen in minus 80 it would mean That it was kept in the absence of of electricity because there's no electricity in minus 80 degrees This was the idea I asked many students no one wanted to do it because of it's it's not so easy and also sad a little crazy Well, and when the PI the principal investigator lab has a pet experiment no one wants to do that experiment University too So and then then I agreed to do it done a luncheon. I was very happy Only later to find out that she ignored me completely and did a different experiment The experiment that data did in instead is to just take the worms teach them the association and place them on ice She wanted to see how the kinetics of memory and forgetting change In low temperature because maybe Whatever memory is The breakdown of the memory is affected by the temperature Very simple idea when different experiments different experiment By a cool experiment very cool. Yeah, and what she found is that when you place the worms on ice Absolutely, she'll they just don't forget if then even 10 times longer than control worms At that point after 24 hours if no one wants forget after two hours After 24 hours the worms will become six or normally we do shorter experiments Okay, but for two hours the worms don't forget This is cool, but it was only the beginning because The Boeing explanation is just what I just said that everything slows down in low temperatures So the breakdown of memory and again, we don't know what it is, but whatever it is Happens lower in low temperatures But this is not the case. It's not merely the physical. It's the response It's the changing of the internal state of the worms which affects the memory kinetics. How do we know this? There's a beautiful work of the last one years on cold tolerance in the elegan's nematodes If you take the worms and you place them on ice Like she did but longer for 48 hours they all die However, if you take the worms Acclimate them to lower temperatures for a few hours Five hours and it's a minimum and then place them on ice they also live They become cold tolerant and people who study this show that this involves changes in lipid metabolism and many things So Dana took the worms and acclimated them to slightly lower temperatures made them cold resistant and then taught them the association and Place them on ice and now they forgot immediately Which means that when they change their internal state to become cold tolerant They no longer extend memories on ice which means it's not only the temperature because the temperature is anyway low now they know the moment We took this as a starting point to understand what which genes change when the worms are Becoming cold tolerant on enough ice and we found genes that when you mutate them the worms just remember longer Always even when they're off ice because these are the genes that normally change when they're surprised on the ice And these genes Are expressed just in one pair of neurons just two out of the 302 No, I see said 302 not 300 And we can manipulate the activities of these genes in these neurons to extend memory and then the punchline of everything That Happen is that we found out that this this this neuron where these genes function this one pair of neuron is the only neuron in C elegance which is sensitive to lithium And lithium is a drug that is being given to bipolar This other patients for decades, although it's not entirely clear how it works. It's very very interesting It's also interesting doesn't episode of course in your podcast about this you know more than about this than me a lot But it's also interesting because it's just an atom created in the big bank yet it works on our brains in such a fundamental way And we wanted to see whether it works on the also in the world because this neuron was tied to this memory extension phenotype that we found so then a group of worms on lithium remove them from lithium Totten the association and found out that they learn a lot long they they remember a lot longer than control ones Not only that if you first make the worms called tolerance And then lithium doesn't work on them So lithium switches this Forgetfulness mechanism on and off Amazing and it's it's all in it's all connected to called tolerance Amazing and amazing for a number of reasons and so at risk of being long-winded in my response I just wanted to highlight something that I think will be of relevance to most people which is when At some point we did a few episodes on memory And highlighted a review that was written by the great James McGaw one of the great mammalian memory researchers who's worked a lot on humans and mice and I was Shocked upon intended and amused to learn that in medieval times if people wanted children to remember lessons They could be religious lessons or school doctrine or whatever it was mathematics whether they would take Children teach them and then throw them into cold water to introduce a Memory instilling event and we now know that the memory instilling event is the release of adrenaline in the body Which makes perfect sense if you think about traumatic events But it also this whole general mechanism also applies to the learning of other types of information And so if I understand correctly about The role of lithium and the role of cold in the experiments that you just described There's some general state switch some internal state switch that says what happened in the Minutes or hours preceding this was important it acts as sort of like a highlighter pen in in the book of experiences and Absolutely curious to know whether or not this is an RNA dependent mechanism in some way So it's just literally like the highlighter in the a keya instruction book This we don't know this we don't know and as I said this is not even a finished work And it's not peer reviewed to just the state that I told you about but But it's very exciting for for me to go into this new feeling You know once it's out that we're happy to talk more about it And think about the implications and the connections so other things and more about the mechanism Yeah, well, thank you for sharing it with us despite the fact that it's not finished with And people now know that it's also not finished and I love a good cliffhanger So we await the full the full conclusion and interpretation of these results Today you've taken us on an amazing journey through the genome RNA short interfering RNAs A ton of history of prior experiments some of which ended tragically many of which Unfortunately did not and they were true triumphs in In particular the work in your laboratory, which is just incredible and also this introduction of model organisms So and I only mentioned a short handful of the things that You've taught us about today. So first I want to extend thanks for the incredible teaching I also want to say thank you for something Equally important which is that absolutely came through but is what initially Brought me to explore you and your work more although I had certainly heard of you Which is that your spirit and kind of approach to biology Is an is an extremely unique and intoxicating one it's even I've been sure to call it seductive It's so you know there's a I do believe that whether or not it's music or poetry or science or mathematics that The spirit behind something dictates the amount of intelligence and precision with which that thing is is carried out and It absolutely comes through so if I'm making a feel on the spot about this I've succeeded Thank you. Thank you very much, but I know that listeners can can feel it. It's a felt thing So thank you. There are many scientists out there a fewer with this phenotype and even fewer that You know, I think that can communicate with such Articulate precision. So thank you so much. Thank you. It's been a real pleasure. Pleasure was all mine Thanks a lot. Great. Well, we'll do it again And we'll learn about all the incredible things you're doing trying to transform Science as it were at the level of publishing at the level of social media because there's a whole other discussion there Meanwhile, we will of course point people in the direction of you and to learn more about your work and um, I look forward to hearing the conclusion of Dana's studies Thanks a lot to be in a real pleasure Thank you for joining me today for my discussion with dr. Oded Rakhavi about genetics inheritance the epigenome and transgenerational passage of traits If you're learning from and you're enjoying the podcast, please subscribe to our youtube channel That's a terrific zero cost way to support us in addition Please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple you can leave us up to a five star review If you have questions for us or comments or suggestions about topics you'd like us to cover or guess you'd like me to include on the Hubertman lab podcast Please put those in the comments section on youtube. I do read all the comments in addition Please check out the sponsors mentioned the beginning and throughout today's episode That's the best way to support this podcast not so much on today's episode But on many previous episodes of the Hubertman lab podcast we discuss supplements while supplements aren't necessary for everybody Many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like improving sleep improving focus and for hormone support The Hubertman lab podcast is proud to partner with momentous supplements We've done that for several reasons first of all momentous supplements are the very highest quality Also, they tend to focus on single ingredient formulations Which makes it very straightforward to build the most cost effective and biologically effective supplement regimen for you We've also partnered with momentous because we realized that many listeners of this podcast reside outside of the United States Unfortunately, momentous chips internationally if you'd like to learn more about the supplements discussed on the Hubertman lab podcast You can go to live momentous spelled OUS so that's live momentous.com slash Hubertman if you're not already following us on social media Please feel free to do so we are Hubertman lab on Instagram Twitter Facebook and LinkedIn and at all those places I cover information some of which overlaps with the content of the Hubertman lab podcast But much of which is distinct from content on the Hubertman lab podcast So again, it's Hubertman lab on all social media channels the Hubertman lab podcast Also has a so-called neural network newsletter. This is a zero-cost monthly newsletter That consists of podcast summaries and so-called toolkits and those toolkits range from things like a tool kit for sleep for focus for controlling dopamine deliberate cold exposure For increasing focus and much much more if you want to sign up for that newsletter You can go to Hubertman lab.com go to the menu scroll down to newsletter You simply provide your email and I assure you we do not share your email with anybody And again, it's a completely zero-cost newsletter find it at Hubertman lab.com. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Dr Odedra Havi and last but certainly not least thank you for your interest in science
