Dr. Andy Galpin: Optimal Nutrition & Supplementation for Fitness | Huberman Lab Guest Series
 Welcome to the Hubertman Lab guest series where I and an expert guest discuss science and science based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Hubertman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today's episode marks the sixth and final of the sixth episode series on fitness, exercise, and performance. And today's discussion is all about nutrition and supplementation to maximize your fitness, exercise, and performance goals. Dr. Andy Yalpin. Welcome to the Hubertman Lab guest series where I and an expert guest discuss science and science based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Hubertman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today's episode marks the sixth and final of the sixth episode series on fitness, exercise, and performance. And today's discussion is all about nutrition and supplementation to maximize your fitness, exercise, and performance goals. Dr. Andy Yalpin. I'm super excited to discuss today's topic, which is nutrition and supplementation for performance and recovery. And I'm particularly excited about this conversation because I've been interested in supplementation and nutrition for performance really since my teens. But also because in recent years we've witnessed a massive transformation in the general public in terms of their view of supplementation and nutrition. I'm super excited to discuss today's topic, which is nutrition and supplementation for performance and recovery. And I'm particularly excited about this conversation because I've been interested in supplementation and nutrition for performance really since my teens. But also because in recent years we've witnessed a massive transformation in the general public in terms of their view of supplementation and nutrition. First of all, more people are thinking about nutrition. What is good nutrition? What is not? A very barbed wire topic, as you know, but there are some truths in there that we'll discuss. But also supplementation. You know, whereas 10, 15 years ago, I think most people would either be really into supplements. That was a small percentage of people. But the majority of people were either told or were thinking, oh, you know, vitamins, you mostly excrete them. They're just expensive urine. First of all, more people are thinking about nutrition. What is good nutrition? What is not? A very barbed wire topic, as you know, but there are some truths in there that we'll discuss. But also supplementation. You know, whereas 10, 15 years ago, I think most people would either be really into supplements. That was a small percentage of people. But the majority of people were either told or were thinking, oh, you know, vitamins, you mostly excrete them. They're just expensive urine. Nowadays, it seems that many people, including many of my colleagues and physicians all the way down to sports performance experts, are taking and making recommendations about certain supplements. And so the way that I like to think about supplements is that they aren't necessarily just supplements, which makes it sound like they are augmenting what should already be there, but you're not quite getting enough of. Nowadays, it seems that many people, including many of my colleagues and physicians all the way down to sports performance experts, are taking and making recommendations about certain supplements. And so the way that I like to think about supplements is that they aren't necessarily just supplements, which makes it sound like they are augmenting what should already be there, but you're not quite getting enough of. But indeed, a lot of these things we call supplements are very potent compounds that can transform our ability to perform in the short term, to recover from exercise, and that can really shape brain chemistry, hormone patterns, acutely, and when taken long term. But indeed, a lot of these things we call supplements are very potent compounds that can transform our ability to perform in the short term, to recover from exercise, and that can really shape brain chemistry, hormone patterns, acutely, and when taken long term. So I'm very excited about today's topic and to be able to try and sort through this, let's call it a cloud, hopefully not a storm, but this cloud of supplements that are out there, because indeed many of them are excellent and can provide us a lot. Some of them are terrible, and then some just don't do anything, and therefore are terrible because either they have side effects or because they're very expensive and they don't do anything. So I'm very excited about today's topic and to be able to try and sort through this, let's call it a cloud, hopefully not a storm, but this cloud of supplements that are out there, because indeed many of them are excellent and can provide us a lot. Some of them are terrible, and then some just don't do anything, and therefore are terrible because either they have side effects or because they're very expensive and they don't do anything. And then of course within the realm of nutrition, there's an equal amount of confusion, but that's why I'm talking to you, because you're going to put clarity and structure and definition on these incredibly important topics. You absolutely nailed it there. One of the major reasons supplements can work is because you can consume nutrients in extremely high concentrations such that you would not get in nature through food. And then of course within the realm of nutrition, there's an equal amount of confusion, but that's why I'm talking to you, because you're going to put clarity and structure and definition on these incredibly important topics. You absolutely nailed it there. One of the major reasons supplements can work is because you can consume nutrients in extremely high concentrations such that you would not get in nature through food. Having said that, you really do want to focus on the basic sleep nutrition hydration, and I'm going to get into very specific detail later with some of those things. That said, there are plenty of situations and circumstances when supplementation can do exactly what you said. Also though, because you are taking them as such high concentrations, they can also be unproductive, they can be destructive, or they can be counterproductive. Having said that, you really do want to focus on the basic sleep nutrition hydration, and I'm going to get into very specific detail later with some of those things. That said, there are plenty of situations and circumstances when supplementation can do exactly what you said. Also though, because you are taking them as such high concentrations, they can also be unproductive, they can be destructive, or they can be counterproductive. In case if you are taking a couple of supplements over here, it may actually be counteracting the benefits of some of the other supplements over there. In the ideal situation, we would be able to work like snipers here. We would be able to run full biological testing, extensive blood work, saliva, urine and stool, and have an end depth analysis of your gut microbiome, and your stress patterns, and your time of day, and your cortisol curve, and all the things that we do in our high performance folks. In case if you are taking a couple of supplements over here, it may actually be counteracting the benefits of some of the other supplements over there. In the ideal situation, we would be able to work like snipers here. We would be able to run full biological testing, extensive blood work, saliva, urine and stool, and have an end depth analysis of your gut microbiome, and your stress patterns, and your time of day, and your cortisol curve, and all the things that we do in our high performance folks. With that, then, we can get extremely high precision supplementation, and quite honestly our philosophy is we only give individuals exactly what they need. So even some of the standard generally safe and effective supplements, we don't really necessarily use them if there is no specific need. We've talked about the consequences of this with things like antioxidants, but even simple stuff like stimulants and other tools that are effective for recovery, we don't use them unless we have a reason. With that, then, we can get extremely high precision supplementation, and quite honestly our philosophy is we only give individuals exactly what they need. So even some of the standard generally safe and effective supplements, we don't really necessarily use them if there is no specific need. We've talked about the consequences of this with things like antioxidants, but even simple stuff like stimulants and other tools that are effective for recovery, we don't use them unless we have a reason. That said, that's not the reality for a lot of people. They're not going to be able to do something like that or work somebody who can help them in that. So there are a handful of supplements that I would consider to be in my 80-20. Rule, which is sort of like the 20% of supplements that are going to give you 80% of the benefit for the lowest cost. And so what I can actually use is to sort of start there, even though this burns my skin and my soul a little bit, I absolutely hate this. I am the context guy. That said, that's not the reality for a lot of people. They're not going to be able to do something like that or work somebody who can help them in that. So there are a handful of supplements that I would consider to be in my 80-20. Rule, which is sort of like the 20% of supplements that are going to give you 80% of the benefit for the lowest cost. And so what I can actually use is to sort of start there, even though this burns my skin and my soul a little bit, I absolutely hate this. I am the context guy. It depends. It's high precision guy. But let's be real. There are a number of supplements that are fairly effective and fairly cheap for a wide range of outcomes. So this is for general public. This is for people who want to do the three buckets. You want to look a certain way. So supplements that could enhance muscle growth and fat loss, non hormonal based supplements, of course. It depends. It's high precision guy. But let's be real. There are a number of supplements that are fairly effective and fairly cheap for a wide range of outcomes. So this is for general public. This is for people who want to do the three buckets. You want to look a certain way. So supplements that could enhance muscle growth and fat loss, non hormonal based supplements, of course. Supplements that can improve energy or physical performance. Again, from everything from squatting more to feeling better in your yoga class, to having my energy throughout the day, to our third major bucket that we've been talking about throughout this entire series, which are longevity. So we can cover those first if you'd like to start there. Yes, absolutely. Let's start there. Oftentimes when we think of supplements, we immediately jump to high sport performance type of things or vigorous workouts or muscle building. Supplements that can improve energy or physical performance. Again, from everything from squatting more to feeling better in your yoga class, to having my energy throughout the day, to our third major bucket that we've been talking about throughout this entire series, which are longevity. So we can cover those first if you'd like to start there. Yes, absolutely. Let's start there. Oftentimes when we think of supplements, we immediately jump to high sport performance type of things or vigorous workouts or muscle building. Though that doesn't necessarily have to be the case. Take for example, Crete team. I've spoken about this at length and with Darren Candau, who's done a tremendous amount of research. I was just up at his lab recently in Canada. And he has covered extensively. In fact, I think I put up a post perhaps I could draw this up where he laid out all the myriad of benefits of Crete team. Though that doesn't necessarily have to be the case. Take for example, Crete team. I've spoken about this at length and with Darren Candau, who's done a tremendous amount of research. I was just up at his lab recently in Canada. And he has covered extensively. In fact, I think I put up a post perhaps I could draw this up where he laid out all the myriad of benefits of Crete team. This is taken in the typically three to five grams per day of dose of Crete team. I'll hydrate which has the most research behind it. Seems to be extremely low side effects in almost anyone. And the benefits, including course, things like muscle performance and strength and things like that. And if you go back to our discussion in our episode on metabolism and endurance, we talked about the phosphocreatine system. This is taken in the typically three to five grams per day of dose of Crete team. I'll hydrate which has the most research behind it. Seems to be extremely low side effects in almost anyone. And the benefits, including course, things like muscle performance and strength and things like that. And if you go back to our discussion in our episode on metabolism and endurance, we talked about the phosphocreatine system. And we can figure out kind of what this is going to do in terms of effect. That said, there's excellent information and data coming out on the benefits of bone mineral density in Crete team. There's a ton of work looking at a host of cognitive factors from memory, executive function to effects potentially on even things like depression, mood to Alzheimer's Parkinson's. And we can figure out kind of what this is going to do in terms of effect. That said, there's excellent information and data coming out on the benefits of bone mineral density in Crete team. There's a ton of work looking at a host of cognitive factors from memory, executive function to effects potentially on even things like depression, mood to Alzheimer's Parkinson's. All forms of neurodegenerative disease, in fact, it's pretty obvious. The brain loves Crete team as a fuel. And so we sort of discussed in the episode as being the fuel for skeletal muscle contraction. But the brain needs to do that as well. The astrocytes around the brain need to be able to ride energy, et cetera. So it's very clear that metabolism in the brain is reduced with things like TBI and potentially concussions. All forms of neurodegenerative disease, in fact, it's pretty obvious. The brain loves Crete team as a fuel. And so we sort of discussed in the episode as being the fuel for skeletal muscle contraction. But the brain needs to do that as well. The astrocytes around the brain need to be able to ride energy, et cetera. So it's very clear that metabolism in the brain is reduced with things like TBI and potentially concussions. So now to be extremely clear, Crete team does not prevent any of those diseases. It does not treat any of them and the data are mixed. But it's more and more are coming. Some show a little bit of benefits. Some show, you know, maybe none. But I'm not aware of any research in those areas that show it has any downside. So now to be extremely clear, Crete team does not prevent any of those diseases. It does not treat any of them and the data are mixed. But it's more and more are coming. Some show a little bit of benefits. Some show, you know, maybe none. But I'm not aware of any research in those areas that show it has any downside. For the most part, side effects are extremely minimal, if not null, and then potentially some benefit, depending on the specific study. So we could put up a, if you'd like a couple of links directly to those metanocies and folks can go through those things one by one. So I only say that to again, maybe expand our understanding or thinking about what these types of supplements can do. It's not just about growing muscle or, you know, high performance. It's everything to again, there's an association with recovery. For the most part, side effects are extremely minimal, if not null, and then potentially some benefit, depending on the specific study. So we could put up a, if you'd like a couple of links directly to those metanocies and folks can go through those things one by one. So I only say that to again, maybe expand our understanding or thinking about what these types of supplements can do. It's not just about growing muscle or, you know, high performance. It's everything to again, there's an association with recovery. So creatine is fantastic for recovery from muscle, for muscle damage, helps and can potentially aid in fat loss and a whole host of things. So you can actually also even look at websites like examine.com. I have no affiliation with them whatsoever. But if you want to just type in something like creatin monohydrate, you can see a whole list. And you're going to see thousands of studies of the potential benefits of creatine. So that is always number one on my list. So creatine is fantastic for recovery from muscle, for muscle damage, helps and can potentially aid in fat loss and a whole host of things. So you can actually also even look at websites like examine.com. I have no affiliation with them whatsoever. But if you want to just type in something like creatin monohydrate, you can see a whole list. And you're going to see thousands of studies of the potential benefits of creatine. So that is always number one on my list. I'm relieved to hear that creatine sits at the top of your supplementation list. Because well, first of all, I started taking it when I was in college. At that time, I was taking it in this kind of loading mode where you take it anywhere from 15 to 25 grams per day, often causing some gastric distress, often combining with fruit juice to try and shuttling it into the muscles. I'm relieved to hear that creatine sits at the top of your supplementation list. Because well, first of all, I started taking it when I was in college. At that time, I was taking it in this kind of loading mode where you take it anywhere from 15 to 25 grams per day, often causing some gastric distress, often combining with fruit juice to try and shuttling it into the muscles. And then, so-called maintenance phase of reducing to 10 or 15 grams per day. Nowadays, I just take about 5 grams. Or so, although later, I know you're going to tell me why I should probably be taking more than 5 grams per day, given my body weight. So I know we'll get into some of those specifics a little bit later. But in addition to experiencing direct effects on muscle size and strength, which I did, I don't know how it contributed to my cognitive function, or if it does now. And then, so-called maintenance phase of reducing to 10 or 15 grams per day. Nowadays, I just take about 5 grams. Or so, although later, I know you're going to tell me why I should probably be taking more than 5 grams per day, given my body weight. So I know we'll get into some of those specifics a little bit later. But in addition to experiencing direct effects on muscle size and strength, which I did, I don't know how it contributed to my cognitive function, or if it does now. So there's really no way to tease that out with standard at home tests, like a scale. But it is very clear to me, based on the literature that you described. And some of which we've covered on other episodes of the podcast that the phosphocreatine system is vitally important for four brain function, right? So there's really no way to tease that out with standard at home tests, like a scale. But it is very clear to me, based on the literature that you described. And some of which we've covered on other episodes of the podcast that the phosphocreatine system is vitally important for four brain function, right? And as is every context dependent way of thinking or acting. And so anything that can favor function of the four brain, I think is good for humans in general. It suppresses anxiety, allows us to interpret what's going on for us. And so I'm very relieved and gratified to hear that creatine sits at the top of the list. Also, as I'm sure you'll point out again later, creatine is for the most part a relatively affordable supplement for most people. And as is every context dependent way of thinking or acting. And so anything that can favor function of the four brain, I think is good for humans in general. It suppresses anxiety, allows us to interpret what's going on for us. And so I'm very relieved and gratified to hear that creatine sits at the top of the list. Also, as I'm sure you'll point out again later, creatine is for the most part a relatively affordable supplement for most people. So here we're not talking about something that's really esoteric or that you have to fly to some remote location to get an infusion of. Right. Although I apologize to all you because I know the price has skyrocketed recently. Really? Yeah. Why is that? I think it's a, well, nobody knows, but it's quote unquote a supply and demand issue, if you will. So those prices have gone up. So here we're not talking about something that's really esoteric or that you have to fly to some remote location to get an infusion of. Right. Although I apologize to all you because I know the price has skyrocketed recently. Really? Yeah. Why is that? I think it's a, well, nobody knows, but it's quote unquote a supply and demand issue, if you will. So those prices have gone up. There's also of course been shipping problems in the world and things. So every time I talk about creatine right now, people just flame me for like, oh my God, it's so expensive now. I'm like, I know I'm sorry, but honestly, it's only so expensive because you're used to being so cheap. So when you, when you counter the fact that we're like, right. Yeah, like relative to the other stuff you're probably taking relative to any other number of purchases for the, it still lands very high in my ROI list, my, you know, my 80 20 because of that. There's also of course been shipping problems in the world and things. So every time I talk about creatine right now, people just flame me for like, oh my God, it's so expensive now. I'm like, I know I'm sorry, but honestly, it's only so expensive because you're used to being so cheap. So when you, when you counter the fact that we're like, right. Yeah, like relative to the other stuff you're probably taking relative to any other number of purchases for the, it still lands very high in my ROI list, my, you know, my 80 20 because of that. It's, it's, it can be taken any time of the day. It doesn't have to be in magical combination. You talked about co-ingesting with carbohydrates. That can enhance how quickly you can get into the system. In fact, it's going to work on the exact same mechanism. We'll probably potentially talk about hydration. But these things are shut all the, so anytime you bring in carbohydrates, that's going to be shipped into tissues quickly as a can. It's, it's, it can be taken any time of the day. It doesn't have to be in magical combination. You talked about co-ingesting with carbohydrates. That can enhance how quickly you can get into the system. In fact, it's going to work on the exact same mechanism. We'll probably potentially talk about hydration. But these things are shut all the, so anytime you bring in carbohydrates, that's going to be shipped into tissues quickly as a can. Creatine then goes along for the right and then it brings water for the right. That's how you enhance hydration. That's why it's important to have carbohydrates when you're trying to hydrate. So you're just going to take it in there. That's also why you get, quote, unquote, cell swelling, which is a good thing. It's just enhancing hydration. We actually use it a ton in our post weigh-in protocols. So individuals that have to cut water weight. Creatine's a great thing to throw back in there. It's going to help you rehydrate. It's also why when you take 30 grams of it, it can pull a bunch of fluid in the intestines and, and there you go with your little bit of GI distress. Creatine then goes along for the right and then it brings water for the right. That's how you enhance hydration. That's why it's important to have carbohydrates when you're trying to hydrate. So you're just going to take it in there. That's also why you get, quote, unquote, cell swelling, which is a good thing. It's just enhancing hydration. We actually use it a ton in our post weigh-in protocols. So individuals that have to cut water weight. Creatine's a great thing to throw back in there. It's going to help you rehydrate. It's also why when you take 30 grams of it, it can pull a bunch of fluid in the intestines and, and there you go with your little bit of GI distress. So, yeah, there's a lot of fun things you can talk about there. I just had to flag that because every time I've been talking about it recently and I say, it's cheap. People are killing me for it. So I apologize. I don't know how to make any cheaper, but it's still fairly fairly affordable. Yeah, I would say relatively inexpensive compared to a lot of supplements out there. And when thinking about the return on investment is, it's quite good. Yeah, it's like actually sorry, sorry, sorry, it's cut you up. But I was just also thinking there's been a number of studies on sleep deprivation as well with creatine. So, yeah, there's a lot of fun things you can talk about there. I just had to flag that because every time I've been talking about it recently and I say, it's cheap. People are killing me for it. So I apologize. I don't know how to make any cheaper, but it's still fairly fairly affordable. Yeah, I would say relatively inexpensive compared to a lot of supplements out there. And when thinking about the return on investment is, it's quite good. Yeah, it's like actually sorry, sorry, sorry, it's cut you up. But I was just also thinking there's been a number of studies on sleep deprivation as well with creatine. It can help. So obviously sleep deprivation will generally reduce cognitive function and creatine can ameliorate some of that drop. So if you think about it in that context, I had a crummy night of sleep. Well, and if that enables you to perform a little bit better in your job, then you would make up the dollar or so whatever you paid for that day's supply of creatine. So it is something I kind of on that note, it's not going to work as an acute response. So it's not something you're like, I feel terrible. It can help. So obviously sleep deprivation will generally reduce cognitive function and creatine can ameliorate some of that drop. So if you think about it in that context, I had a crummy night of sleep. Well, and if that enables you to perform a little bit better in your job, then you would make up the dollar or so whatever you paid for that day's supply of creatine. So it is something I kind of on that note, it's not going to work as an acute response. So it's not something you're like, I feel terrible. So some creatine down the hatch, I'll feel better that that's not going to work. It's going to take several weeks to have a noticeable effect. It needs to be stored in tissue. It needs to be built up before you can actually do much of anything. So it is unlike some of the other things like stimulants or caffeine that have an acute response right now. And so if you're going to take it, you probably need to consume it consistently. If you can't do that, then really there's no point in doing it. So some creatine down the hatch, I'll feel better that that's not going to work. It's going to take several weeks to have a noticeable effect. It needs to be stored in tissue. It needs to be built up before you can actually do much of anything. So it is unlike some of the other things like stimulants or caffeine that have an acute response right now. And so if you're going to take it, you probably need to consume it consistently. If you can't do that, then really there's no point in doing it. And the loading phase you mentioned distance were here is something you can do. Again, if you need to enhance the storage of it really quickly. So say for example, we've done this in some military cases where it's like you get back to base and you've only got a week and then you got to go back out. We may actually have to do a little bit of a loading phase then. But if that's not the case, the loading phase is unnecessary. And the loading phase you mentioned distance were here is something you can do. Again, if you need to enhance the storage of it really quickly. So say for example, we've done this in some military cases where it's like you get back to base and you've only got a week and then you got to go back out. We may actually have to do a little bit of a loading phase then. But if that's not the case, the loading phase is unnecessary. It's not really harmful other than maybe joyous stress and maybe waste. But you're going to have three or four weeks. It's going to reach full saturation plenty of time to be there in that if you're in that three to seven grams per day range. I'm glad you mentioned the slow accumulating positive effects of creatine as compared to so called acute effects because the way that I think of health promoting a performance enhancing protocols like viewing morning sunlight or endurance exercise for that matter or creatine It's not really harmful other than maybe joyous stress and maybe waste. But you're going to have three or four weeks. It's going to reach full saturation plenty of time to be there in that if you're in that three to seven grams per day range. I'm glad you mentioned the slow accumulating positive effects of creatine as compared to so called acute effects because the way that I think of health promoting a performance enhancing protocols like viewing morning sunlight or endurance exercise for that matter or creatine or sleep for instance is that while they can have effects in the immediate term you might feel a little bit or in the case of a good night sleep a lot better. It's really the cumulative effect of raising your baseline level of functioning. or sleep for instance is that while they can have effects in the immediate term you might feel a little bit or in the case of a good night sleep a lot better. It's really the cumulative effect of raising your baseline level of functioning. Another way to think about is these supplements or behaviors and quality nutrition when done consistently over time and that doesn't mean 100% of the time but you know probably 80% of the time lead to a sort of buoyancy in your system that allows you to be more resilient under conditions where conditions aren't perfect. Another way to think about is these supplements or behaviors and quality nutrition when done consistently over time and that doesn't mean 100% of the time but you know probably 80% of the time lead to a sort of buoyancy in your system that allows you to be more resilient under conditions where conditions aren't perfect. And if conditions are made perfect or close to perfect and you already have that buoyancy that's when you really start to see the ultra high performance effects that are so much fun but they have to be established through consistent supplementation consistent nutritional intake. And if conditions are made perfect or close to perfect and you already have that buoyancy that's when you really start to see the ultra high performance effects that are so much fun but they have to be established through consistent supplementation consistent nutritional intake. So today I know we're going to distinguish between normally they're called chronic and acute effects but that makes it sound like chronic illness the moment people hear chronic well they might think of other things but but in the context of health they typically think of you know chronic illness and we're not talking about that what we're talking about is slow modularatory effects in the body a lot of things in the body take time to build up but once they've built up they they clearly can benefit us and then other things as you mentioned you know a stimulant for instance has a very acute effect that is going to occur with you know peak within 30 minutes and we're off within you know four hours or so can also have some chronic effects but typically it's a short lived effect so we just want to frame up the language that we'll be using and I'm really excited to dive into this topic and I think creatine is a beautiful example of a supplement that has positive chronic mental and physical benefits. peak within 30 minutes and we're off within you know four hours or so can also have some chronic effects but typically it's a short lived effect so we just want to frame up the language that we'll be using and I'm really excited to dive into this topic and I think creatine is a beautiful example of a supplement that has positive chronic mental and physical benefits. down the road I can come back and talk a little bit more about creatine and we can cover some other information regarding best practices for getting the most out of it as well as we'll certainly dive into some of the common side effects or at least a thought of side effects while we're here though I also could throw in a few other of these high impact low cost generally safe things that are my 80 20 rule if you will so the way I actually kind of think about it is you want one from each of three categories and these categories are down the road I can come back and talk a little bit more about creatine and we can cover some other information regarding best practices for getting the most out of it as well as we'll certainly dive into some of the common side effects or at least a thought of side effects while we're here though I also could throw in a few other of these high impact low cost generally safe things that are my 80 20 rule if you will so the way I actually kind of think about it is you want one from each of three categories and these categories are fuel stimulant and fatigue blockers so creatine is actually in the fuel it's not a stimulant we talked about it chronic effect there so we've already knocked that one off another one from the fatigue blocker is going to be anything like beta alanine or sodium bicarbonate and then from the stimulant use of course we have anything like a beetroot juice to a caffeine or something of the equivalent so we can come back again and talk about all those more detail fuel stimulant and fatigue blockers so creatine is actually in the fuel it's not a stimulant we talked about it chronic effect there so we've already knocked that one off another one from the fatigue blocker is going to be anything like beta alanine or sodium bicarbonate and then from the stimulant use of course we have anything like a beetroot juice to a caffeine or something of the equivalent so we can come back again and talk about all those more detail a little bit later before we begin I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford there's also separate for Dr Andy Galpins teaching and research roles at Cal State Fullerton it is however part of our desire an effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public in keeping with that theme we'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast our first sponsor is momentous momentous makes supplements of the absolute highest quality the human lab podcast is proud to be partnering with momentous for several important reasons first of all as I mentioned their supplements are of extremely high quality second of all their supplements are generally in single ingredient formulations if you're going to develop a supplementation protocol you're going to want to focus mainly on using single ingredient formulations with single ingredient momentous for several important reasons first of all as I mentioned their supplements are of extremely high quality second of all their supplements are generally in single ingredient formulations if you're going to develop a supplementation protocol you're going to want to focus mainly on using single ingredient formulations with single ingredient formulations you can devise the most logical and effective and cost effective supplementation regimen for your goals in addition momentous supplement ship internationally and this is of course important because we realize that many of the human lab podcasts listeners reside outside the United States formulations you can devise the most logical and effective and cost effective supplementation regimen for your goals in addition momentous supplement ship internationally and this is of course important because we realize that many of the human lab podcasts listeners reside outside the United States if you'd like to try the various supplements mentioned on the human lab podcast in particular supplements for hormone health for sleep optimization for focus as well as a number of other things including exercise recovery you can go to live momentous spelled OUS so that live momentous dot com slash human today's episode is also brought to us by levels levels is a program that lets you see how different foods and activities affect your health by giving you real time feedback on your blood glucose using a continuous glucose monitor many people are aware that their blood sugar that is their blood glucose if you'd like to try the various supplements mentioned on the human lab podcast in particular supplements for hormone health for sleep optimization for focus as well as a number of other things including exercise recovery you can go to live momentous spelled OUS so that live momentous dot com slash human today's episode is also brought to us by levels levels is a program that lets you see how different foods and activities affect your health by giving you real time feedback on your blood glucose using a continuous glucose monitor many people are aware that their blood sugar that is their blood glucose level is critical for everything from fat loss to muscle gain to healthy cognition and indeed aging of the brain in body most people do not know how however how different foods and different activities including exercise or different temperature environments impact their blood glucose levels and yet blood glucose is level is critical for everything from fat loss to muscle gain to healthy cognition and indeed aging of the brain in body most people do not know how however how different foods and different activities including exercise or different temperature environments impact their blood glucose levels and yet blood glucose is exquisitely sensitive to all of those things I first started using levels about a year ago as a way to understand how different foods exercise and timing of food relative to exercise and quality of sleep at night impact my blood glucose levels and I've learned a tremendous amount from using levels it's taught me when best to eat what best to eat when best to exercise how best to exercise and how to exquisitely sensitive to all of those things I first started using levels about a year ago as a way to understand how different foods exercise and timing of food relative to exercise and quality of sleep at night impact my blood glucose levels and I've learned a tremendous amount from using levels it's taught me when best to eat what best to eat when best to exercise how best to exercise and how to how to modulate my entire schedule from work to exercise and even my sleep so if you're interested in learning more about levels and trying to continue his glucose monitor yourself go to levels dot link slash Hubertman that's levels dot link slash Hubertman today's episode is also brought to us by element element is an electrolyte drink that contains the exact ratios of the electrolyte sodium magnesium and potassium to optimize cellar functioning for mental and physical performance most people realize that hydration is key we need to how to modulate my entire schedule from work to exercise and even my sleep so if you're interested in learning more about levels and trying to continue his glucose monitor yourself go to levels dot link slash Hubertman that's levels dot link slash Hubertman today's episode is also brought to us by element element is an electrolyte drink that contains the exact ratios of the electrolyte sodium magnesium and potassium to optimize cellar functioning for mental and physical performance most people realize that hydration is key we need to ingest enough fluids in order to feel our best and perform our best but what most people do not realize is that the proper functioning of ourselves and nerve cells neurons in particular requires that sodium magnesium and potassium be present in the correct ratios now of course people with pre hypertension and hypertension need to be careful about their sodium intake but what a lot of people don't realize is that if you drink caffeine if you ingest enough fluids in order to feel our best and perform our best but what most people do not realize is that the proper functioning of ourselves and nerve cells neurons in particular requires that sodium magnesium and potassium be present in the correct ratios now of course people with pre hypertension and hypertension need to be careful about their sodium intake but what a lot of people don't realize is that if you drink caffeine if you exercise and in particular if you're following a very clean diet that is not a lot of processed foods which of course is a good thing chances are you're not getting enough sodium, potassium and magnesium to optimize mental and physical performance element contains a science-backed ratio of 1000 milligrams that's one gram of sodium 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium and no sugar if you'd like to try exercise and in particular if you're following a very clean diet that is not a lot of processed foods which of course is a good thing chances are you're not getting enough sodium, potassium and magnesium to optimize mental and physical performance element contains a science-backed ratio of 1000 milligrams that's one gram of sodium 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium and no sugar if you'd like to try element you can go to drink element that's LMNT dot com slash Huberman to get a free element sample pack with your purchase again that's drink element LMNT dot com slash Huberman to claim a free sample pack to start off I want to ask you about something that as soon as I say it some people might roll their eyes or wonder why are we even talking about that now but that I have to believe is among the more fundamental if not foundational element you can go to drink element that's LMNT dot com slash Huberman to get a free element sample pack with your purchase again that's drink element LMNT dot com slash Huberman to claim a free sample pack to start off I want to ask you about something that as soon as I say it some people might roll their eyes or wonder why are we even talking about that now but that I have to believe is among the more fundamental if not foundational aspects of nutrition and supplementation for performance and that's hydration right I mean I think we hear hydration it's like okay we have to drink six to eight glasses of water every day our urine should be relatively clear if it's too dark yellow or not doing a good job of hydrating enough how much of that is true is alkaline water worth while for changing the alkalinity of my body aspects of nutrition and supplementation for performance and that's hydration right I mean I think we hear hydration it's like okay we have to drink six to eight glasses of water every day our urine should be relatively clear if it's too dark yellow or not doing a good job of hydrating enough how much of that is true is alkaline water worth while for changing the alkalinity of my body I learned when I was in college and graduate school that the alkalinity of the different tissues in your body is very well controlled in order to keep you alive and that you don't want it to shift too much or you can enter pretty horrible states of seizure vomiting and even death so tell me about hydration and woven into that if you would educate me on electrolytes and hydration I learned when I was in college and graduate school that the alkalinity of the different tissues in your body is very well controlled in order to keep you alive and that you don't want it to shift too much or you can enter pretty horrible states of seizure vomiting and even death so tell me about hydration and woven into that if you would educate me on electrolytes and hydration because I think most often when people ingest electrolytes sure they could be ingesting salt tablets probably getting some electrolytes by the way electrolytes sodium magnesium potassium through their food I think most people think about drinking electrolytes so water and electrolytes I think is a vitally important topic to kick this off with because I think most often when people ingest electrolytes sure they could be ingesting salt tablets probably getting some electrolytes by the way electrolytes sodium magnesium potassium through their food I think most people think about drinking electrolytes so water and electrolytes I think is a vitally important topic to kick this off with sure we can jump right into your alkaline water while there is perhaps much to say about this we can maybe revisit this in another seven part series all on its own I would just say it this way there's probably a few things you should do before worrying about the alkalinity of your water and I'll just leave it at that sure we can jump right into your alkaline water while there is perhaps much to say about this we can maybe revisit this in another seven part series all on its own I would just say it this way there's probably a few things you should do before worrying about the alkalinity of your water and I'll just leave it at that meaning the alkalinity of the water is sort of irrelevant not that you won't go that far is just it's probably remember we started started off talking about 80-20 well this would be in my like 99-1 in terms of like if we're really at the level of worrying about the pH of their your drinking fluid we have optimized so many other things that then we can talk about it but until we have nailed months and years of work on other things this is not going to make much of an impact meaning the alkalinity of the water is sort of irrelevant not that you won't go that far is just it's probably remember we started started off talking about 80-20 well this would be in my like 99-1 in terms of like if we're really at the level of worrying about the pH of their your drinking fluid we have optimized so many other things that then we can talk about it but until we have nailed months and years of work on other things this is not going to make much of an impact great then perhaps you could tell us about what volume of water we should be drinking when we should be drinking that water relative to training and just generally and anything else related to water and electrolytes that can improve mental performance physical performance and offset any you know ill effects I like the fact that you mentioned physical and mental performance because it's clear in both cases we hear that we need to drink more water and I can give you some numbers and I will on a second great then perhaps you could tell us about what volume of water we should be drinking when we should be drinking that water relative to training and just generally and anything else related to water and electrolytes that can improve mental performance physical performance and offset any you know ill effects I like the fact that you mentioned physical and mental performance because it's clear in both cases we hear that we need to drink more water and I can give you some numbers and I will on a second what we also need to recognize is there's this is hormesis we talked about hormesis a few episodes ago and this is the case right whether we talked about food or hydration or I think I gave you the example of cyanide naturally occurring in your food hot water is the same way so if you are under hydrated or dehydrated what we also need to recognize is there's this is hormesis we talked about hormesis a few episodes ago and this is the case right whether we talked about food or hydration or I think I gave you the example of cyanide naturally occurring in your food hot water is the same way so if you are under hydrated or dehydrated there is a clear negative effect on your body and as I increase the level or improve the level of hydration things get better whether this is physical performance or this is mental performance in fact we know that a body weight reduction of as low as 2% be a dehydration so imagine you are doing about a exercise and you are sweating and you lose 2% of your body weight there is a clear negative effect on your body and as I increase the level or improve the level of hydration things get better whether this is physical performance or this is mental performance in fact we know that a body weight reduction of as low as 2% be a dehydration so imagine you are doing about a exercise and you are sweating and you lose 2% of your body weight that alone is enough to reduce accuracy and performance so the classic study we talked about here was in basketball players so shooting accuracy so free throw shooting I think is specifically what they looked at significant reduction in performance with as little as 2% dehydration that that level you also see a significant increase in perception of difficulty of exercise that alone is enough to reduce accuracy and performance so the classic study we talked about here was in basketball players so shooting accuracy so free throw shooting I think is specifically what they looked at significant reduction in performance with as little as 2% dehydration that that level you also see a significant increase in perception of difficulty of exercise so only right at 2% I say 2% I mean percent body weight lost that means you start getting the 3% to 4% dehydration you start having a significant reduction in blood volume and that is incredibly important for endurance your blood becomes viscous it gets hard to pump through and you are going to start having all kinds of issues so being dehydrated is not only going to reduce performance but because of the mental aspect which we just walked through so only right at 2% I say 2% I mean percent body weight lost that means you start getting the 3% to 4% dehydration you start having a significant reduction in blood volume and that is incredibly important for endurance your blood becomes viscous it gets hard to pump through and you are going to start having all kinds of issues so being dehydrated is not only going to reduce performance but because of the mental aspect which we just walked through and then there are a muscular issue you are going to lose accuracy you are going to lose total endurance performance and you are going to lose speed and power so we have the triad there no matter what you are interested in it is going to be harmed by being dehydrated that also is happening then if you are starting your program dehydrated so if you are already 1% or so dehydrated maybe you are like a little under hydrated in the U.S. a little bit of sweat you have already hit that 2% and so we are starting to see reductions in performance there the same happens on the other side of that or meta curve and then there are a muscular issue you are going to lose accuracy you are going to lose total endurance performance and you are going to lose speed and power so we have the triad there no matter what you are interested in it is going to be harmed by being dehydrated that also is happening then if you are starting your program dehydrated so if you are already 1% or so dehydrated maybe you are like a little under hydrated in the U.S. a little bit of sweat you have already hit that 2% and so we are starting to see reductions in performance there the same happens on the other side of that or meta curve so if you are optimally hydrated in some large window but you start going past that we can start running into equal problems remember there is a need for an optimal concentration of sodium and potassium and chloride between your cell inside your cell outside your cell these are electrolytes this is what we call osmolality and osmolarity is really good think of it like concentration and osmosis if you remember those terms so if you are optimally hydrated in some large window but you start going past that we can start running into equal problems remember there is a need for an optimal concentration of sodium and potassium and chloride between your cell inside your cell outside your cell these are electrolytes this is what we call osmolality and osmolarity is really good think of it like concentration and osmosis if you remember those terms so if we are trying to create a muscle contraction that requires an electrical gradient and so sodium and potassium specifically in magnesium calcium or positively charged and chloride is negatively charged and we need to have a certain amount inside the cell and outside the cell so that the positives and the negatives are balanced appropriately so that when we move one we change the voltage and we have in the case of a muscle contraction so if we are trying to create a muscle contraction that requires an electrical gradient and so sodium and potassium specifically in magnesium calcium or positively charged and chloride is negatively charged and we need to have a certain amount inside the cell and outside the cell so that the positives and the negatives are balanced appropriately so that when we move one we change the voltage and we have in the case of a muscle contraction I just give them through a whole lot of physiology there to say if you then go mess with fluid only and you say if I were to give you a bolus of three liters of pure water right now you're going to dilute your blood and so there's not going to be as many chemical there won't be as many electrical signals in there because you've taken the same amount of sodium and potassium and so on and put it in a larger volume of pure water I just give them through a whole lot of physiology there to say if you then go mess with fluid only and you say if I were to give you a bolus of three liters of pure water right now you're going to dilute your blood and so there's not going to be as many chemical there won't be as many electrical signals in there because you've taken the same amount of sodium and potassium and so on and put it in a larger volume of pure water so that gradient is now changed that becomes a significant problem for contraction I mean quite literally it can kill you this is what we call hyponotremia so no-tremia spelled N-A hypob being low hyponotremia if you actually go to the periodic chart N-A is what we use for sodium so hyponotremia because the word is N-Tremia actually so that gradient is now changed that becomes a significant problem for contraction I mean quite literally it can kill you this is what we call hyponotremia so no-tremia spelled N-A hypob being low hyponotremia if you actually go to the periodic chart N-A is what we use for sodium so hyponotremia because the word is N-Tremia actually so that what that literally means is low sodium and you didn't get that from sweating out all your sodium you actually get hyponotremia from drinking in too much water so it's not that the total amount of sodium gets low it's the fact that the concentration gets low from excessive fluid intake so in the extremes in fact if you look at the literature you'll see anywhere between like two to 15% of people who finish endurance races are in the hyponotremia so that what that literally means is low sodium and you didn't get that from sweating out all your sodium you actually get hyponotremia from drinking in too much water so it's not that the total amount of sodium gets low it's the fact that the concentration gets low from excessive fluid intake so in the extremes in fact if you look at the literature you'll see anywhere between like two to 15% of people who finish endurance races are in the hyponotremia and that varies wildly if you're doing Iron Man and Kona versus like you know the marathon and Denver and in October right it's going to be totally different depending on other conditions but these are all important so while like death happens that is sort of extreme if you back up just a little bit you start seeing the same types of performance and that varies wildly if you're doing Iron Man and Kona versus like you know the marathon and Denver and in October right it's going to be totally different depending on other conditions but these are all important so while like death happens that is sort of extreme if you back up just a little bit you start seeing the same types of performance and in fact the symptoms can be identical brain fog confusion performance irritation a GI distress and you think man these are symptoms of dehydration so then you drink more water and you're just exacerbating the problem and I can actually give you one little example of this we had an executive actually female CEO I'll say she's probably when her was in her early 40s and so she came to us and she thought man for sure she has some sort of gut problem going on and in fact the symptoms can be identical brain fog confusion performance irritation a GI distress and you think man these are symptoms of dehydration so then you drink more water and you're just exacerbating the problem and I can actually give you one little example of this we had an executive actually female CEO I'll say she's probably when her was in her early 40s and so she came to us and she thought man for sure she has some sort of gut problem going on because we hear a lot about kind of like gut health and how it affects everything and so she says like I have brain fog and I've done all these things and I got blood work done and everything's fine like nothing's going on I think I must have some sort of good thing going on or whatever it is okay and we just started going through her stuff and she was I think about 170 pounds plus or minus and she was consuming like 250 to 60 ounces of water a day because we hear a lot about kind of like gut health and how it affects everything and so she says like I have brain fog and I've done all these things and I got blood work done and everything's fine like nothing's going on I think I must have some sort of good thing going on or whatever it is okay and we just started going through her stuff and she was I think about 170 pounds plus or minus and she was consuming like 250 to 60 ounces of water a day that's a ton of water and we were like holy shit what are you doing this for and she says like I that's sort of like my thing it was but she didn't realize it was more like a nervous tick than it was anything else right she just like sips sips sips sips water I'm like man how often did you go pee and she's like yeah like every you know 30 minutes or something and I'm like fantastic sleep problems focus and so she smashed in caffeine she was at like eight cups of coffee a day which is also going to add to excretion of sodium totally right so it's like okay that's a ton of water and we were like holy shit what are you doing this for and she says like I that's sort of like my thing it was but she didn't realize it was more like a nervous tick than it was anything else right she just like sips sips sips sips water I'm like man how often did you go pee and she's like yeah like every you know 30 minutes or something and I'm like fantastic sleep problems focus and so she smashed in caffeine she was at like eight cups of coffee a day which is also going to add to excretion of sodium totally right so it's like okay it's like okay we don't really need to come in and run a sleep study on you we're just going to lower your water and she was like what we dropped her down to like 180 so basically an ounce per pound of body weight which is still high because she did train 180 ounces correct yeah she does workout so she needed to replenish some stuff and we'll cover these numbers in a second instantaneous aiming like two days in she's like oh my god I haven't slept six straight hours in years it's like okay we don't really need to come in and run a sleep study on you we're just going to lower your water and she was like what we dropped her down to like 180 so basically an ounce per pound of body weight which is still high because she did train 180 ounces correct yeah she does workout so she needed to replenish some stuff and we'll cover these numbers in a second instantaneous aiming like two days in she's like oh my god I haven't slept six straight hours in years and then after that it was like basically tears coming back to us right my focus my brain fog has gone because she's in a very high pressure job it's like everything's coming back like now she was down to three or so cups of half a day like the whole thing digestion improved all of it she was sit like to her only problem after all the analyses was she was just shrinking way way too much water and adding more salt to her would not have solved the problem because she would have just had simply way too much and then after that it was like basically tears coming back to us right my focus my brain fog has gone because she's in a very high pressure job it's like everything's coming back like now she was down to three or so cups of half a day like the whole thing digestion improved all of it she was sit like to her only problem after all the analyses was she was just shrinking way way too much water and adding more salt to her would not have solved the problem because she would have just had simply way too much fluid in her system she was having all kinds of ADHD problems and all those growing like the whole thing that that rolls in at cortisol the whole like system gets goes into chaos so it is important that you pay attention hydration even though as you sort of mentioned people tend to just kind of like roll their eyes around it because if you're in the middle it's fine but if you're anywhere past not even the extreme extremes but just that first standard deviation away you're going to have problems and you might be thinking a adrenal fatigue fluid in her system she was having all kinds of ADHD problems and all those growing like the whole thing that that rolls in at cortisol the whole like system gets goes into chaos so it is important that you pay attention hydration even though as you sort of mentioned people tend to just kind of like roll their eyes around it because if you're in the middle it's fine but if you're anywhere past not even the extreme extremes but just that first standard deviation away you're going to have problems and you might be thinking a adrenal fatigue you might be thinking your chest out like you're going to think all these things and you simply just have an actually dialed in your hydration. Yeah I think people sometimes roll their eyes at the discussion of hydration because it just doesn't sound very sexy it's not like doesn't sound like a neurotransmitter or a hormone it just sounds like testosterone or estrogen or DHA or dopamine but it actually is all of those things. It sits at a level beneath all of those but not beneath on a hierarchy you might be thinking your chest out like you're going to think all these things and you simply just have an actually dialed in your hydration. Yeah I think people sometimes roll their eyes at the discussion of hydration because it just doesn't sound very sexy it's not like doesn't sound like a neurotransmitter or a hormone it just sounds like testosterone or estrogen or DHA or dopamine but it actually is all of those things. It sits at a level beneath all of those but not beneath on a hierarchy beneath in terms of a foundation. It's actually without proper electrolyte balance and hydration none of the cells of the body can function and then I think people also hear that oh you know we are 70% water and somehow that statistic alone or that fact alone doesn't seem to stimulate any kind of action will take away. Right. beneath in terms of a foundation. It's actually without proper electrolyte balance and hydration none of the cells of the body can function and then I think people also hear that oh you know we are 70% water and somehow that statistic alone or that fact alone doesn't seem to stimulate any kind of action will take away. Right. Right. nineteteteteteteeeteeeteeeteeecee of yoke Right. nineteteteteteteeeteeeteeeteeecee of yoke important that people understand that every cellular process in the body critically relies on having enough sodium mangazine potassium around and the the way that it's concentrated in fluid water is really the way that you allow every cell in their body to function as well as it possibly could and respond to all the sorts of kind of quote unquote high performance tools. Yeah. And they were talking about the other thing I've observed many times over is that if people are ingesting too much water and also drinking a important that people understand that every cellular process in the body critically relies on having enough sodium mangazine potassium around and the the way that it's concentrated in fluid water is really the way that you allow every cell in their body to function as well as it possibly could and respond to all the sorts of kind of quote unquote high performance tools. Yeah. And they were talking about the other thing I've observed many times over is that if people are ingesting too much water and also drinking a lot of caffeine and their electrolytes are low they get shaky and they actually have anxiety like symptoms. When people come into my lab to do studies on anxiety and fear we ask a few questions and those questions include how much water they've had that day. Also a sort of bizarre fact but one that I think is worth mentioning is that when the bladder is full it stimulates a sort of anxiety. If you ever had to urinate very badly and you're in the car or you can't urinate and then you lot of caffeine and their electrolytes are low they get shaky and they actually have anxiety like symptoms. When people come into my lab to do studies on anxiety and fear we ask a few questions and those questions include how much water they've had that day. Also a sort of bizarre fact but one that I think is worth mentioning is that when the bladder is full it stimulates a sort of anxiety. If you ever had to urinate very badly and you're in the car or you can't urinate and then you get to the door like that's talk about anxiety and that's because there's a direct neural pathway from the bladder that registers the mechanosensors how much stretch there is on the bladder that sends a signal to the brain stem alertness areas broadly speaking, locust surullius and others that wake us up. These are the when we're awake it makes us more awake and when we're asleep this is what wakes us up to urinate in the middle of the night. Yeah that's actually why you can use night urination as a pretty good diagnostic of sleep disorders. get to the door like that's talk about anxiety and that's because there's a direct neural pathway from the bladder that registers the mechanosensors how much stretch there is on the bladder that sends a signal to the brain stem alertness areas broadly speaking, locust surullius and others that wake us up. These are the when we're awake it makes us more awake and when we're asleep this is what wakes us up to urinate in the middle of the night. Yeah that's actually why you can use night urination as a pretty good diagnostic of sleep disorders. So if because of vasopressin right I'm just exactly what you're talking about. If you're having sleep disorder issues and you're staying awake and a vasopressin gets taken off right an APN goes straight to the kidneys. Your kidneys are supposed to be dormant basically at night you're not supposed to be filtering a lot of and producing a lot of urine at night. If that's happening and say you you have any number of apneas kicking on or anything going on, vasopressin keeps going, keeps sending a signal, kidneys start filtering. So if you're waking up and So if because of vasopressin right I'm just exactly what you're talking about. If you're having sleep disorder issues and you're staying awake and a vasopressin gets taken off right an APN goes straight to the kidneys. Your kidneys are supposed to be dormant basically at night you're not supposed to be filtering a lot of and producing a lot of urine at night. If that's happening and say you you have any number of apneas kicking on or anything going on, vasopressin keeps going, keeps sending a signal, kidneys start filtering. So if you're waking up and being multiple times at night, that's called nocturia. That is a very very good sign that either one of two things happen. You one you have some sort of sleep disorder or two you're drinking outrageous amounts of water. And so that's actually a bit of a backwards cycle now right because you're drinking way too much water you're waking up and being all night, that's actually ruining your sleep. And so we have seen this a number of times with our sleep company as we go in and it's just like you don't need any of this crap. You just need to be properly hydrated. Alternatively, if your hydration is sounding you're still waking up more than being multiple times at night, that's called nocturia. That is a very very good sign that either one of two things happen. You one you have some sort of sleep disorder or two you're drinking outrageous amounts of water. And so that's actually a bit of a backwards cycle now right because you're drinking way too much water you're waking up and being all night, that's actually ruining your sleep. And so we have seen this a number of times with our sleep company as we go in and it's just like you don't need any of this crap. You just need to be properly hydrated. Alternatively, if your hydration is sounding you're still waking up more than one time a night to pee on average, then you almost I shouldn't say like that. But there's a potential that you actually have some sort of sleep disorder or sleep condition going in. So the rule of thumb on that is so we're here. Once or night, once a night or so of your nation is fine. If it is routinely or consistently more than two, you need to make some adjustments start with hydration. It's the simplest way right. Getting a full sleep study done just figure out hydration. We've had this happen a number of times where people one time a night to pee on average, then you almost I shouldn't say like that. But there's a potential that you actually have some sort of sleep disorder or sleep condition going in. So the rule of thumb on that is so we're here. Once or night, once a night or so of your nation is fine. If it is routinely or consistently more than two, you need to make some adjustments start with hydration. It's the simplest way right. Getting a full sleep study done just figure out hydration. We've had this happen a number of times where people want to get more health conscious and they just get they hear things like this and they're like, I got to get in my water and then they just start train wrecking their sleep and they're waking it up. So if you're waking up multiple times and you're urinating and it is a large amount of urine for you and it is clear. That's probably not sleep aptly induced nocturia. That's probably excessive hydration. If you're waking up a bunch of times and it's fairly small amounts of urine, then it's probably not the fluid issue. It's probably the fact that the base of pressure is kicking your kidneys into gear. So that's not a perfect want to get more health conscious and they just get they hear things like this and they're like, I got to get in my water and then they just start train wrecking their sleep and they're waking it up. So if you're waking up multiple times and you're urinating and it is a large amount of urine for you and it is clear. That's probably not sleep aptly induced nocturia. That's probably excessive hydration. If you're waking up a bunch of times and it's fairly small amounts of urine, then it's probably not the fluid issue. It's probably the fact that the base of pressure is kicking your kidneys into gear. So that's not a perfect criteria but it's just like a quick little tool you can sort of use. That's actually one of the reasons why we measure almost always your body weight at night as well as in the morning. So that's like the combat sport in the UFC fighter's boxers. We call that your float. So I'm going to you float it overnight. I like to know that number because I want to know as well your first morning void. So when you wake up and you went to bed at 200 pounds, you woke up the next morning at 195. Oh, you floated five pounds. Did you pee last criteria but it's just like a quick little tool you can sort of use. That's actually one of the reasons why we measure almost always your body weight at night as well as in the morning. So that's like the combat sport in the UFC fighter's boxers. We call that your float. So I'm going to you float it overnight. I like to know that number because I want to know as well your first morning void. So when you wake up and you went to bed at 200 pounds, you woke up the next morning at 195. Oh, you floated five pounds. Did you pee last night? Yeah, yeah, three times. Interesting. In other case, you woke up, you went to bed at 200 pounds. You wake up at 199.5. Okay, you're dehydrated because you should have a certain amount of fluid that you're just respiring out as you're breathing throughout your nose to not night ideally. Guaranteed you're going to wake up. What was your urine like? Oh, yeah, a little bit pretty dark like shocker. You're dehydrated. So you can kind of look at numbers like that. A general float night? Yeah, yeah, three times. Interesting. In other case, you woke up, you went to bed at 200 pounds. You wake up at 199.5. Okay, you're dehydrated because you should have a certain amount of fluid that you're just respiring out as you're breathing throughout your nose to not night ideally. Guaranteed you're going to wake up. What was your urine like? Oh, yeah, a little bit pretty dark like shocker. You're dehydrated. So you can kind of look at numbers like that. A general float is something like a pound to two pounds for the 170 plus pound person. As you scale up that number, you can go up a little bit. But you can kind of use these to triage a little bit about what's going on with this kind of combination. Everything is everything. Right? So it's like it's not just that one system. So you're going to pay attention. You can also look, I don't know, we've been jumping into it. We can, but there's a whole bunch of ways I can teach you to diagnose hydration. And then maybe we can start there and then we can talk about hydration numbers. is something like a pound to two pounds for the 170 plus pound person. As you scale up that number, you can go up a little bit. But you can kind of use these to triage a little bit about what's going on with this kind of combination. Everything is everything. Right? So it's like it's not just that one system. So you're going to pay attention. You can also look, I don't know, we've been jumping into it. We can, but there's a whole bunch of ways I can teach you to diagnose hydration. And then maybe we can start there and then we can talk about hydration numbers. Yes, I'd love to talk about diagnostics for hydration over hydration dehydration. To start off, would you be willing to give us some numbers? How much water should we be drinking? The classic rule here and you're making me do what I hate, right? I want to give all the caveats first, but I'll go straight to your number. Half an ounce per pound of body weight is a rough rule. So a few way again, 200 pounds, that would mean you're drinking 100 ounces of water a day. Yes, I'd love to talk about diagnostics for hydration over hydration dehydration. To start off, would you be willing to give us some numbers? How much water should we be drinking? The classic rule here and you're making me do what I hate, right? I want to give all the caveats first, but I'll go straight to your number. Half an ounce per pound of body weight is a rough rule. So a few way again, 200 pounds, that would mean you're drinking 100 ounces of water a day. Most water bottles are like 12 to 20 ounces, something like that. So you're end up drinking six of those or so a day, kind of like plus or minus, which is not that unreasonable. This does depend on a number of factors, which I could go over, but that is a rough starting place. The only other thing to add to that is that does not account for exercise-induced water loss or sauna or anything like that. So that's assuming just like basil daily needs. Most water bottles are like 12 to 20 ounces, something like that. So you're end up drinking six of those or so a day, kind of like plus or minus, which is not that unreasonable. This does depend on a number of factors, which I could go over, but that is a rough starting place. The only other thing to add to that is that does not account for exercise-induced water loss or sauna or anything like that. So that's assuming just like basil daily needs. If you are exercising or sweating at all for any reasons or work related, so folks at work outside or in the heat or a humid environment, these numbers all change and you can slide this scale up. But you generally want to drink about 125% of the fluids you've lost during that physical activity back. And how much do you lose per hour of exercise? That number ranges between one to five pounds depending on the person. It can even be higher with some of our athletes. If you are exercising or sweating at all for any reasons or work related, so folks at work outside or in the heat or a humid environment, these numbers all change and you can slide this scale up. But you generally want to drink about 125% of the fluids you've lost during that physical activity back. And how much do you lose per hour of exercise? That number ranges between one to five pounds depending on the person. It can even be higher with some of our athletes. I can think of a number of NFL players right now. It's not uncommon for those guys to do eight or nine pounds, even not even like crazy circumstances. If it's August and Warren Jacksonville, it's not wild for us those guys to go nine, ten pounds. What about the typical person who goes to an air-conditioned gym or goes out for a run on a day that is somewhere between let's say 55 degrees Fahrenheit and 85 degrees Fahrenheit? You're probably looking at like a pound. I can think of a number of NFL players right now. It's not uncommon for those guys to do eight or nine pounds, even not even like crazy circumstances. If it's August and Warren Jacksonville, it's not wild for us those guys to go nine, ten pounds. What about the typical person who goes to an air-conditioned gym or goes out for a run on a day that is somewhere between let's say 55 degrees Fahrenheit and 85 degrees Fahrenheit? You're probably looking at like a pound. It's not extremely high. If you are totally soaked, might be like a pound and a half to two pounds. If you're like a comeback and like your pits are a little sweaty and there's a little bit of water kind of on your neckline, it's probably like a more like a pound or so. So in that case, you might drink back a pound and a half of water. Okay, so just to review these numbers to make sure that I'm on the correct page here. It's not extremely high. If you are totally soaked, might be like a pound and a half to two pounds. If you're like a comeback and like your pits are a little sweaty and there's a little bit of water kind of on your neckline, it's probably like a more like a pound or so. So in that case, you might drink back a pound and a half of water. Okay, so just to review these numbers to make sure that I'm on the correct page here. A half an ounce of fluid per pound of body weight is a sort of a foundation for hydration. And then you want to replace 125% of the fluid loss during exercise and exercise varies where exercise is done varies whether or not people are wearing uniforms or helmets is going to impact how much fluid they lose, etc. In a very hot environment that the amount of fluid A half an ounce of fluid per pound of body weight is a sort of a foundation for hydration. And then you want to replace 125% of the fluid loss during exercise and exercise varies where exercise is done varies whether or not people are wearing uniforms or helmets is going to impact how much fluid they lose, etc. In a very hot environment that the amount of fluid loss can be anywhere from one to five, maybe even 10 pounds per hour of hard exertion for most exercise done in conditions of 55 degrees Fahrenheit to 75 degrees Fahrenheit done with some degree of effort. One might lose a pound or two pounds of water. Super easy way to find out all you have to do is weigh yourself naked. Go do your workout. Come back in, dry off, loss can be anywhere from one to five, maybe even 10 pounds per hour of hard exertion for most exercise done in conditions of 55 degrees Fahrenheit to 75 degrees Fahrenheit done with some degree of effort. One might lose a pound or two pounds of water. Super easy way to find out all you have to do is weigh yourself naked. Go do your workout. Come back in, dry off, weigh yourself naked. That will tell you exactly what you lost. So if you win in, you were 160 pounds, you come back out, you wait, you won 58, you lost two pounds, drink back two and a half pounds of water, you're good. So that is, it honestly is like fairly gold standard for identifying. You can actually buy a whole bunch of technology for this and they are using the exact same equation, which is your body weight when you were there. Now if you do that though, you do need to account for any fluid you drink during the workout because that then offsets it. weigh yourself naked. That will tell you exactly what you lost. So if you win in, you were 160 pounds, you come back out, you wait, you won 58, you lost two pounds, drink back two and a half pounds of water, you're good. So that is, it honestly is like fairly gold standard for identifying. You can actually buy a whole bunch of technology for this and they are using the exact same equation, which is your body weight when you were there. Now if you do that though, you do need to account for any fluid you drink during the workout because that then offsets it. Simple but I think important question. We're talking about a half announce of fluid per pound of body weight. Does that include things like coffee tea, soda, pre workout drinks, mid workout drinks, a Monte matcha, whatever the, you know, there's a year of a Monte. There's a, there are a million things out there or just water. Any fluid for the most part is going to count. And is it true that fluids that contain caffeine generally cause us to Simple but I think important question. We're talking about a half announce of fluid per pound of body weight. Does that include things like coffee tea, soda, pre workout drinks, mid workout drinks, a Monte matcha, whatever the, you know, there's a year of a Monte. There's a, there are a million things out there or just water. Any fluid for the most part is going to count. And is it true that fluids that contain caffeine generally cause us to create sodium? Yeah. Okay. So do you recommend including electrolyte powder or a small pinch of sodium or any number of other supplement type electrolytes that can replace that sodium, magnesium and potassium? A couple of things we have to pay attention to to accurately answer that question. Well, you also sort of asked about you may have not even realized is this caffeine create sodium? Yeah. Okay. So do you recommend including electrolyte powder or a small pinch of sodium or any number of other supplement type electrolytes that can replace that sodium, magnesium and potassium? A couple of things we have to pay attention to to accurately answer that question. Well, you also sort of asked about you may have not even realized is this caffeine enhance dehydration, which is not really what you ask, but it's probably a lot of people thought that as well. So caffeine can, but coffee doesn't necessarily do that because remember you're co-ingesting that with fluid. And so we used to say that all the time, coffee dehydrated to it doesn't and might make your urine yellow. It certainly gives off an odor in your urine, but in general coffee will not do that because your intestines, if you were to now be taking caffeine pills alone, enhance dehydration, which is not really what you ask, but it's probably a lot of people thought that as well. So caffeine can, but coffee doesn't necessarily do that because remember you're co-ingesting that with fluid. And so we used to say that all the time, coffee dehydrated to it doesn't and might make your urine yellow. It certainly gives off an odor in your urine, but in general coffee will not do that because your intestines, if you were to now be taking caffeine pills alone, now there is a bit of a diuretic effect there. And so you're going to urinate how much maybe not enough for you to be really concerned with, especially when you balance that against the ergogenic effects and benefits of caffeine. It's not something we are concerned about. Second part of your question, do you need to then offset the loss of sodium? I'm not super concerned about the amount of sodium loss to caffeine. I am more concerned about simply the amount of sodium being correct because of the bigger circumstances like how much is actually in now there is a bit of a diuretic effect there. And so you're going to urinate how much maybe not enough for you to be really concerned with, especially when you balance that against the ergogenic effects and benefits of caffeine. It's not something we are concerned about. Second part of your question, do you need to then offset the loss of sodium? I'm not super concerned about the amount of sodium loss to caffeine. I am more concerned about simply the amount of sodium being correct because of the bigger circumstances like how much is actually in your system and how much you lost in the training session. So it's not the caffeine that I care about that much relative to if you lost three grams of sodium because of the training and you added another few milligrams because of caffeine I don't really care or didn't. I'm glad you brought up the difference between a substance like caffeine and the vehicle it's contained in like coffee. This is all really important and it also raises a question by individual your system and how much you lost in the training session. So it's not the caffeine that I care about that much relative to if you lost three grams of sodium because of the training and you added another few milligrams because of caffeine I don't really care or didn't. I'm glad you brought up the difference between a substance like caffeine and the vehicle it's contained in like coffee. This is all really important and it also raises a question by individual differences in sweating ability and I call it sweating ability because I have a good friend I've known for ages really actually work with him in my laboratory as well and he's one of these people that the moment he starts any physical activity it's like a flood warning right he just soaks through clothing it's just that the sweating adaptation is is exceedingly robust in him other people less so so is it true that sweating in our ability to dump heat through it by loss of water or something differences in sweating ability and I call it sweating ability because I have a good friend I've known for ages really actually work with him in my laboratory as well and he's one of these people that the moment he starts any physical activity it's like a flood warning right he just soaks through clothing it's just that the sweating adaptation is is exceedingly robust in him other people less so so is it true that sweating in our ability to dump heat through it by loss of water or something we tend to vary on and then also that we can build up that capacity I know a number of people are probably thinking it grows why would I want to sweat more but there's actually a huge advantage to be able to dump body heat during exertion because body heat in some ways sets the cap for performance in a lot in many many ways including mental performance or ability to stay alert often is enhanced by being cold and of course we all want to warm up properly but in terms of we tend to vary on and then also that we can build up that capacity I know a number of people are probably thinking it grows why would I want to sweat more but there's actually a huge advantage to be able to dump body heat during exertion because body heat in some ways sets the cap for performance in a lot in many many ways including mental performance or ability to stay alert often is enhanced by being cold and of course we all want to warm up properly but in terms of loss of fluid through sweating is there a way to easily bend ourselves into kind of a low sweater medium sweater heavy sweater that sounds like an article of clothing but in any case you know what I'm you know man another a lot to say here which we had a whole series on this listen if we have to go 17 hours we can do it just everybody hydrate well I think we've shown the listeners that is a real threat that's a very real threat podcasting to failure you don't have to do every set in the loss of fluid through sweating is there a way to easily bend ourselves into kind of a low sweater medium sweater heavy sweater that sounds like an article of clothing but in any case you know what I'm you know man another a lot to say here which we had a whole series on this listen if we have to go 17 hours we can do it just everybody hydrate well I think we've shown the listeners that is a real threat that's a very real threat podcasting to failure you don't have to do every set in the gym to failure but here we are attempting a podcast to failure in it in all seriousness what what is the role of sweating ability and is this something that any of us should care about or train for or pay attention to or is this just kind of getting into the arcane number one you can train your ability to sweat this is important for heat acclimation and why that matters when you sweat that actually is not what regulates your temperature you what you want to have happened is gym to failure but here we are attempting a podcast to failure in it in all seriousness what what is the role of sweating ability and is this something that any of us should care about or train for or pay attention to or is this just kind of getting into the arcane number one you can train your ability to sweat this is important for heat acclimation and why that matters when you sweat that actually is not what regulates your temperature you what you want to have happened is the fluid to hit your skin and that to be evaporated that's the actual mechanism so in fact if you stop sweating and like you can guarantee within a short amount of time you're going to be done moving very interesting I hope people heard that and really are highlighting that in their mind that sweating is a process of bringing fluid from your body onto the surface of your skin and then the heat dumping aspect of sweating is the evaporation of that off off your body which brings the fluid to hit your skin and that to be evaporated that's the actual mechanism so in fact if you stop sweating and like you can guarantee within a short amount of time you're going to be done moving very interesting I hope people heard that and really are highlighting that in their mind that sweating is a process of bringing fluid from your body onto the surface of your skin and then the heat dumping aspect of sweating is the evaporation of that off off your body which brings to mind all sorts of ideas about how to dress during exercise etc but what you said is that if you are not sweating enough you are limiting your output capacity so it's not just about having enough fluid to sweat it's also about being able to sweat and being dressed appropriately to allow that sweat to move to evaporate off your body. Yep and heat acclimation training is as simple as it sounds so just practice it more so to mind all sorts of ideas about how to dress during exercise etc but what you said is that if you are not sweating enough you are limiting your output capacity so it's not just about having enough fluid to sweat it's also about being able to sweat and being dressed appropriately to allow that sweat to move to evaporate off your body. Yep and heat acclimation training is as simple as it sounds so just practice it more so if you're going into a process where you either need to be in a hot environment or you need to improve your sweat right you just need to practice sweating and your body will get better so practice the sauna practice such a kuzi just get in those things and you will improve your ability to do that now there is a huge genetic component I have one individual actually a UFC fighter I've been working with and I don't mind mentioning his name he'll give me full permission Scott Holtzman many many years he's actually fighting right now actually today he'll be going he is if you're going into a process where you either need to be in a hot environment or you need to improve your sweat right you just need to practice sweating and your body will get better so practice the sauna practice such a kuzi just get in those things and you will improve your ability to do that now there is a huge genetic component I have one individual actually a UFC fighter I've been working with and I don't mind mentioning his name he'll give me full permission Scott Holtzman many many years he's actually fighting right now actually today he'll be going he is like he is like you described like buckets and buckets and buckets of fluids come off this guy when he's tying issues he just goes right like and now we've we've improved that I actually sweat too much we worked on that a lot early in his career and we we got some improvements down to get him to hold on to fluids better that being said I've worked with other individuals in his weight category and it's the opposite right so we can have them literally do the exact same training session together and Scott will dump six pounds and other folks at his size will dump two two and a half like he is like you described like buckets and buckets and buckets of fluids come off this guy when he's tying issues he just goes right like and now we've we've improved that I actually sweat too much we worked on that a lot early in his career and we we got some improvements down to get him to hold on to fluids better that being said I've worked with other individuals in his weight category and it's the opposite right so we can have them literally do the exact same training session together and Scott will dump six pounds and other folks at his size will dump two two and a half so there's a genetic component that is just there and you don't need to worry about it there so can you identify if you are a heavy salt sweater or not well you have a whole bunch of routes for this number one is you can use the old free cost free test of just looking at your clothing and if you're seeing that white residue all over it so you you all have the friend who probably wears that same baseball hat that they've had for eight years if it is covered in the white so there's a genetic component that is just there and you don't need to worry about it there so can you identify if you are a heavy salt sweater or not well you have a whole bunch of routes for this number one is you can use the old free cost free test of just looking at your clothing and if you're seeing that white residue all over it so you you all have the friend who probably wears that same baseball hat that they've had for eight years if it is covered in the white junk all over the place that's a sign of a higher salt sweater if the opposite happens and it's like you can pull their clothing back and there's just nothing there and they are maybe a little bit of a lower salt sweater you can also use any number of hydration tests I know that there is some coming out in the market very very soon that can give you theoretically real time measurements it's like a CGM would be although I haven't seen any data on if those are accurate or junk all over the place that's a sign of a higher salt sweater if the opposite happens and it's like you can pull their clothing back and there's just nothing there and they are maybe a little bit of a lower salt sweater you can also use any number of hydration tests I know that there is some coming out in the market very very soon that can give you theoretically real time measurements it's like a CGM would be although I haven't seen any data on if those are accurate or not have a used one yet but there are a number that are out super cheap you know 10, 15, 20 bucks all the way up to a couple hundred dollars where you can buy these patches put them on you and get a reasonably close estimate and again if those things are 5 or 10 or 20 percent off I don't know have to see independent data come out first but even if they are you're not worried about the specific milligrams right whether you sweat out you know 1250 milligrams and work out or if it's 1340 it doesn't really matter you're trying to look for big big numbers right are you not have a used one yet but there are a number that are out super cheap you know 10, 15, 20 bucks all the way up to a couple hundred dollars where you can buy these patches put them on you and get a reasonably close estimate and again if those things are 5 or 10 or 20 percent off I don't know have to see independent data come out first but even if they are you're not worried about the specific milligrams right whether you sweat out you know 1250 milligrams and work out or if it's 1340 it doesn't really matter you're trying to look for big big numbers right are you losing 500 milligrams using 3.5 grams where you're at so those things will get you in the ballpark to do exactly what you decide am I high medium or low and there's a lot of them that I've used in the past so that's another way to go about it then what you want to do is probably match your electrolyte intake to something close to what you sweat that's the ideal scenario you can get a lot information about hydration from blood you can look at like acute markers of dehydration like losing 500 milligrams using 3.5 grams where you're at so those things will get you in the ballpark to do exactly what you decide am I high medium or low and there's a lot of them that I've used in the past so that's another way to go about it then what you want to do is probably match your electrolyte intake to something close to what you sweat that's the ideal scenario you can get a lot information about hydration from blood you can look at like acute markers of dehydration like hemoglobin hematocrit if your hemoglobin is like 15 plus it's funny we've talked about this in a few episodes before but I see that and I'm like man that dude super fit that's like a 15 for hemoglobin would be pretty high 14 or so it would be pretty good for a female that's also the exact same thing as the sign of acute dehydration so hematocrit same thing if you're north at 50% you're probably dehydrated so you can get a lot there are also though a lot of hemoglobin hematocrit if your hemoglobin is like 15 plus it's funny we've talked about this in a few episodes before but I see that and I'm like man that dude super fit that's like a 15 for hemoglobin would be pretty high 14 or so it would be pretty good for a female that's also the exact same thing as the sign of acute dehydration so hematocrit same thing if you're north at 50% you're probably dehydrated so you can get a lot there are also though a lot of biomarkers that can tell you more about chronic dehydration so you can run through those things as well so good blood chemistry tests can tell you a lot and you can actually get some insights that you're sodium and potassium I'll view them in as another fantastic way to measure longer term hydration status now with these amazing globulins that we've sort of talked a lot about so you can do all those things you can also simply measure the body weight preimposed and use a sweat patch or not and use the the freer version of your clothing test and get a rough idea biomarkers that can tell you more about chronic dehydration so you can run through those things as well so good blood chemistry tests can tell you a lot and you can actually get some insights that you're sodium and potassium I'll view them in as another fantastic way to measure longer term hydration status now with these amazing globulins that we've sort of talked a lot about so you can do all those things you can also simply measure the body weight preimposed and use a sweat patch or not and use the the freer version of your clothing test and get a rough idea of where you're getting it from so those are good places to start I want to go back though and make sure I wasn't over terrifying the audience too much on a silver piece if you're performing a type of training or exercise or sport in which you're not losing more than 2% of your body weight you don't need to be overly concerned about hydrating in the sport and so we can actually get into some equations for how much water to drink during training right now but if you again losing less of where you're getting it from so those are good places to start I want to go back though and make sure I wasn't over terrifying the audience too much on a silver piece if you're performing a type of training or exercise or sport in which you're not losing more than 2% of your body weight you don't need to be overly concerned about hydrating in the sport and so we can actually get into some equations for how much water to drink during training right now but if you again losing less than that it's not critical you can have some fluids it's like makes you feel better but you're not going to be experiencing tremendous amounts of performance if you're you know again outplaying a baseball game and it's 50 degrees out you're fine you can drink some water but that's not going to be compromising performance or recovery so we can actually then if you'd like I can go through the three step system for optimizing hydration but those are I want to make sure I plan to that flag so people aren't as terrified that they got to be guzzling down water if they're you know than that it's not critical you can have some fluids it's like makes you feel better but you're not going to be experiencing tremendous amounts of performance if you're you know again outplaying a baseball game and it's 50 degrees out you're fine you can drink some water but that's not going to be compromising performance or recovery so we can actually then if you'd like I can go through the three step system for optimizing hydration but those are I want to make sure I plan to that flag so people aren't as terrified that they got to be guzzling down water if they're you know going to their physical therapist for some stretching that's probably not super important I'd like to see a brief break and acknowledge our sponsor athletic greens athletic greens is a vitamin mineral probiotic and adaptogen drink designed to help you meet all of your foundational nutritional needs I've been taking athletic greens daily since 2012 so I'm delighted that they're a sponsor of this podcast the reason I started taking athletic greens and the reason I still take athletic greens once or twice a day is that it helps me meet all of my foundational nutritional going to their physical therapist for some stretching that's probably not super important I'd like to see a brief break and acknowledge our sponsor athletic greens athletic greens is a vitamin mineral probiotic and adaptogen drink designed to help you meet all of your foundational nutritional needs I've been taking athletic greens daily since 2012 so I'm delighted that they're a sponsor of this podcast the reason I started taking athletic greens and the reason I still take athletic greens once or twice a day is that it helps me meet all of my foundational nutritional needs that is it covers my vitamins my minerals and the probiotics are especially important to me athletic greens also contains adaptogens which are critical for recovering from stress from exercise from work or just general life if you'd like to try athletic greens you can go to athletic greens dot com slash huberman to claim a special offer they'll give you five free travel packs and they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D3 K2 again if you'd like to try athletic greens go to athletic greens dot com slash huberman to claim the special offer I would love for you to tell us needs that is it covers my vitamins my minerals and the probiotics are especially important to me athletic greens also contains adaptogens which are critical for recovering from stress from exercise from work or just general life if you'd like to try athletic greens you can go to athletic greens dot com slash huberman to claim a special offer they'll give you five free travel packs and they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D3 K2 again if you'd like to try athletic greens go to athletic greens dot com slash huberman to claim the special offer I would love for you to tell us what I refer to as the galpin equation understanding of course that you did not name the galpin equation listen folks scientists can have things named after them but in general it's not reflective of healthy psychology if they name things after themselves correct sometimes yes neuroanatomists used to do that but in any case dr. Andy Galpin did not name the galpin equation after himself I named it after him and the galpin equation for how much fluid to ingest during what I refer to as the galpin equation understanding of course that you did not name the galpin equation listen folks scientists can have things named after them but in general it's not reflective of healthy psychology if they name things after themselves correct sometimes yes neuroanatomists used to do that but in any case dr. Andy Galpin did not name the galpin equation after himself I named it after him and the galpin equation for how much fluid to ingest during exercise is you want to take your body weight in pounds and divide that by 30 and you want to consume that number which would be in ounces about every 15 to 20 minutes so in the example of you being 200 pounds you would take 200 divided by 30 which is let's just call that number 7 to be close which means you would consume about seven ounces of water every 15 or 20 minutes or so exercise is you want to take your body weight in pounds and divide that by 30 and you want to consume that number which would be in ounces about every 15 to 20 minutes so in the example of you being 200 pounds you would take 200 divided by 30 which is let's just call that number 7 to be close which means you would consume about seven ounces of water every 15 or 20 minutes or so now as a little bit of a point while I also did not name it I also didn't do the research it's important to point out that other scientists figured these things out I just read their papers and made that derivation of their equation to make it a little bit easier for us folks who do not work on the metric system okay a couple of things first of all I'm not 200 pounds but it doesn't matter how much I weigh because the point is that the listener should take their body weight in pounds divided by 30 and just that number of ounces and fluid every 15 minutes and then for now as a little bit of a point while I also did not name it I also didn't do the research it's important to point out that other scientists figured these things out I just read their papers and made that derivation of their equation to make it a little bit easier for us folks who do not work on the metric system okay a couple of things first of all I'm not 200 pounds but it doesn't matter how much I weigh because the point is that the listener should take their body weight in pounds divided by 30 and just that number of ounces and fluid every 15 minutes and then for those out there outside the US that are accustomed to thinking in milliliters and leaders not ounces and kilograms not pounds what is the Galpon equation in the metric system this would be two milliliters per kilogram which again if you were let's say 200 pounds that's going to be something roughly like we'll call it 90 kilos and so if you did two milliliters per kilo you'd be something like those out there outside the US that are accustomed to thinking in milliliters and leaders not ounces and kilograms not pounds what is the Galpon equation in the metric system this would be two milliliters per kilogram which again if you were let's say 200 pounds that's going to be something roughly like we'll call it 90 kilos and so if you did two milliliters per kilo you'd be something like 180 milliliters of fluid again every 15 or 20 minutes great and how should people ingest that fluid and of course I would imagine that it's through their mouth I hope I hope there are other orifices that it might suffice but let's not go there they're drinking that water consistently or is it every 15 minutes they slug it back does it matter okay yeah that's very good a handful of things 180 milliliters of fluid again every 15 or 20 minutes great and how should people ingest that fluid and of course I would imagine that it's through their mouth I hope I hope there are other orifices that it might suffice but let's not go there they're drinking that water consistently or is it every 15 minutes they slug it back does it matter okay yeah that's very good a handful of things in general when you talk hydration the slower and study you can go the better in fact the reason these this two milliliters per kilogram number came out is because a number of trials were run when they looked at that every 15 minutes just one boldest of it you know in different durations and it is pretty clear that the slower pace one could do it the better so whether you're doing it every 10 minutes or 15 or 20 minutes the reason we actually give that gap is because you have to be in general when you talk hydration the slower and study you can go the better in fact the reason these this two milliliters per kilogram number came out is because a number of trials were run when they looked at that every 15 minutes just one boldest of it you know in different durations and it is pretty clear that the slower pace one could do it the better so whether you're doing it every 10 minutes or 15 or 20 minutes the reason we actually give that gap is because you have to be also offset a little bit of GI distress in fact like kind of the the four golden rules of recovery if you will we use sort of three hours you need to rebuild rehydrate and replenish what that really means is you need to have a continuous glucose stream you need to have a continuous amino acid stream you need to hydrate and you need to do all one two and three without disturbing your gut too much and so in this particular case it was sort of found that we can hit that level in general also offset a little bit of GI distress in fact like kind of the the four golden rules of recovery if you will we use sort of three hours you need to rebuild rehydrate and replenish what that really means is you need to have a continuous glucose stream you need to have a continuous amino acid stream you need to hydrate and you need to do all one two and three without disturbing your gut too much and so in this particular case it was sort of found that we can hit that level in general and be just fine for most people so I mean a little bit of context the example we gave there in both cases it's something like six to seven ounces for 15 or 20 minutes if you think about that there's 16 ounces in a pound and most water bottles like if you go buy a water bottle of store here it's they generally come in like 16 ounce bottles ish so six or seven ounces is really like a third of a water bottle maybe every 15 or 20 or so minutes so it's not some egregious and be just fine for most people so I mean a little bit of context the example we gave there in both cases it's something like six to seven ounces for 15 or 20 minutes if you think about that there's 16 ounces in a pound and most water bottles like if you go buy a water bottle of store here it's they generally come in like 16 ounce bottles ish so six or seven ounces is really like a third of a water bottle maybe every 15 or 20 or so minutes so it's not some egregious amount of water that you have to slam down now that is influenced heavily by how hydrated you started the session with so how hydrogen you came in external factors like heat humidity temperature things like that but that gives you a rough idea that again and these are numbers that you would need to consume to optimize performance at the end of that then is when you would look to see how much I lost like we talked about earlier and then add back that 125% amount of water that you have to slam down now that is influenced heavily by how hydrated you started the session with so how hydrogen you came in external factors like heat humidity temperature things like that but that gives you a rough idea that again and these are numbers that you would need to consume to optimize performance at the end of that then is when you would look to see how much I lost like we talked about earlier and then add back that 125% taking into account how much fluid you ingested so if you're 200 pounds and you drink a total of say a pound of water during the training and you started off at 200 and you finished at 198 you actually lost three pounds not two pounds because you lost three you drank one during it so your final net number is two so now you don't you really need to drink back 125% of that remaining taking into account how much fluid you ingested so if you're 200 pounds and you drink a total of say a pound of water during the training and you started off at 200 and you finished at 198 you actually lost three pounds not two pounds because you lost three you drank one during it so your final net number is two so now you don't you really need to drink back 125% of that remaining two pounds two and a half pounds something like that these numbers especially that 125 are they're just rough guidelines some actually papers suggest it's all the up to 150% so it's just like an idea don't measure out whether you need 5.5 ounces or 6.2 ounces like it just sort of gives you an idea of where to start all right a few sips every 15 or 20 minutes is close enough I've actually started using the Galpon equation to determine how much fluid I need two pounds two and a half pounds something like that these numbers especially that 125 are they're just rough guidelines some actually papers suggest it's all the up to 150% so it's just like an idea don't measure out whether you need 5.5 ounces or 6.2 ounces like it just sort of gives you an idea of where to start all right a few sips every 15 or 20 minutes is close enough I've actually started using the Galpon equation to determine how much fluid I need for mental work given the now robust data that are out there on the relationship between hydration and mental work it's been very effective for me and again there are peer reviewed studies that support the idea that hydration is important for proper mental clarity and energy and focus and that even being slightly dehydrated can disrupt that but if one is drinking so much water for mental work given the now robust data that are out there on the relationship between hydration and mental work it's been very effective for me and again there are peer reviewed studies that support the idea that hydration is important for proper mental clarity and energy and focus and that even being slightly dehydrated can disrupt that but if one is drinking so much water they're frequently going to the restroom and can't comfortably focus on the work they're doing that's also an issue so that's very helpful what are the three most critical features of hydration and then I'd like to move on to some of the more particulars about supplementation and nutrition three parts start hydrated maintain hydration throughout part three is hydrate post to fix it okay they're frequently going to the restroom and can't comfortably focus on the work they're doing that's also an issue so that's very helpful what are the three most critical features of hydration and then I'd like to move on to some of the more particulars about supplementation and nutrition three parts start hydrated maintain hydration throughout part three is hydrate post to fix it okay we gave you the half ounce propound a body weight equation so you start the training hydrated we gave you the you know two milliliters per kilogram slash body weight divided by 30 to stay hydrated then we gave you the 125 percent but I can actually just give you sort of I'm giving you another list here I'm sorry but it is my five step cheater guide for optimizing hydration for performance sorry step number one drink a lot of water first thing in the morning this gets everything kick we gave you the half ounce propound a body weight equation so you start the training hydrated we gave you the you know two milliliters per kilogram slash body weight divided by 30 to stay hydrated then we gave you the 125 percent but I can actually just give you sort of I'm giving you another list here I'm sorry but it is my five step cheater guide for optimizing hydration for performance sorry step number one drink a lot of water first thing in the morning this gets everything kick starting it's you going it also saves you from having to drink a bunch of water at night which is then going to compromise your sleep what's a lot depending on how big you are the general thing I'll tell people is like one of the very first things you should do throughout your day you wake up go to the bathroom as you're consuming your sunlight consume water this is maybe chugging a full glass it's honestly what I do it's not the best route but I'll just get back to 16 ounces 16 ounces or so is great it's fine if you're larger you know I'm I'm 165 to 70 pounds starting it's you going it also saves you from having to drink a bunch of water at night which is then going to compromise your sleep what's a lot depending on how big you are the general thing I'll tell people is like one of the very first things you should do throughout your day you wake up go to the bathroom as you're consuming your sunlight consume water this is maybe chugging a full glass it's honestly what I do it's not the best route but I'll just get back to 16 ounces 16 ounces or so is great it's fine if you're larger you know I'm I'm 165 to 70 pounds depending on what's going on maybe a little higher sometimes if you're 225 pounds maybe that number is 30 ounces right so you just sort of scale up and down and the only reason I say a lot is it just depends on on what you're doing and I also should clarify I don't really literally mean chug just like sips because the faster you drink water the faster it's going to expand blood volume the faster it extends blood volume the faster you get rid of it I don't think a lot of people know that yeah this is maybe this is clarifying this is also we sort of talked about earlier depending on what's going on maybe a little higher sometimes if you're 225 pounds maybe that number is 30 ounces right so you just sort of scale up and down and the only reason I say a lot is it just depends on on what you're doing and I also should clarify I don't really literally mean chug just like sips because the faster you drink water the faster it's going to expand blood volume the faster it extends blood volume the faster you get rid of it I don't think a lot of people know that yeah this is maybe this is clarifying this is also we sort of talked about earlier if you drink too much water you'll dilute the system well if you have a diluted system your body's first reaction is to rid of water to bring total blood volume down right remember if you were to go to a doctor and they look at your total blood volume they're like man you're 5.5 liters you're going to be like holy crap you're going to be put on a diuretic because you don't want to have a heart attack blood pressure I wonder if people are drinking a 16 ounce glass of water or other fluid all at once before going to sleep and that's why they're waking up in the middle if you drink too much water you'll dilute the system well if you have a diluted system your body's first reaction is to rid of water to bring total blood volume down right remember if you were to go to a doctor and they look at your total blood volume they're like man you're 5.5 liters you're going to be like holy crap you're going to be put on a diuretic because you don't want to have a heart attack blood pressure I wonder if people are drinking a 16 ounce glass of water or other fluid all at once before going to sleep and that's why they're waking up in the middle of the night. Totally. Given what you just said probably a better protocol would be to sip on a glass of water in the final hour or two hours before sleep. You generally the number we say is three hours in the three hours proceeding sleep you want to basically limit fluid intake to sipping as needed. I think that's I'm going to start that tonight because I wake up generally once per night to use the bathroom and I do drink some fluids before I go to sleep mostly because I'm of the night. Totally. Given what you just said probably a better protocol would be to sip on a glass of water in the final hour or two hours before sleep. You generally the number we say is three hours in the three hours proceeding sleep you want to basically limit fluid intake to sipping as needed. I think that's I'm going to start that tonight because I wake up generally once per night to use the bathroom and I do drink some fluids before I go to sleep mostly because I'm thirsty at that time. But I'm going to start sipping that water in the three hours heading into sleep. Yeah, so you can actually pay attention to is to go back this is actually I love doing this stuff. But if you're waking up at night and you have a very dry mouth. Not for me. All right, because it can be one of two things you might actually be dehydrated. And so then the most thing people make is they're like man my mouth is so dry I keep getting up to drink water at night. thirsty at that time. But I'm going to start sipping that water in the three hours heading into sleep. Yeah, so you can actually pay attention to is to go back this is actually I love doing this stuff. But if you're waking up at night and you have a very dry mouth. Not for me. All right, because it can be one of two things you might actually be dehydrated. And so then the most thing people make is they're like man my mouth is so dry I keep getting up to drink water at night. That makes you then pee too much. What that also indicates is probably your mouth breathing. So a lot of ways to fix people waking up and you're dating too much at night is to tape your mouth and or use a a dilator over your nose. And then what happens is you don't feel like you have a dry mouth so you don't get up to consume any extra water throughout the night. So that actually reduces your fluid intake. So you don't have the problem of actually now having too much fluid to do it. And so there's another reason why mouth taping can really really help. That makes you then pee too much. What that also indicates is probably your mouth breathing. So a lot of ways to fix people waking up and you're dating too much at night is to tape your mouth and or use a a dilator over your nose. And then what happens is you don't feel like you have a dry mouth so you don't get up to consume any extra water throughout the night. So that actually reduces your fluid intake. So you don't have the problem of actually now having too much fluid to do it. And so there's another reason why mouth taping can really really help. If you are having those issues and or snoring, those are not benign. That's a really like you really should get some work on those. Something you're not sleeping very well is the way I'll say it. It doesn't doesn't necessarily mean something in life threatening, but it's not a good thing. So you're going to run kind of your triaging things back and forth. So if you're like I'm waking up to pee a lot by my mouth isn't thirsty. Okay, great. Then you may actually have just a water If you are having those issues and or snoring, those are not benign. That's a really like you really should get some work on those. Something you're not sleeping very well is the way I'll say it. It doesn't doesn't necessarily mean something in life threatening, but it's not a good thing. So you're going to run kind of your triaging things back and forth. So if you're like I'm waking up to pee a lot by my mouth isn't thirsty. Okay, great. Then you may actually have just a water consumption issue if it is my mouth is dry, but I'm actually waking up and having these large urinations. Then you're not actually dehydrated. You're just breathing through your mouth. If you're waking up and your mouth is dry and there's not a lot of pee there, then you actually might actually legitimately be under hydrated. So a little bit of a game you can play there. Well, that's super informative. I think that the point alone that gulping a bunch of water all at once is going to consumption issue if it is my mouth is dry, but I'm actually waking up and having these large urinations. Then you're not actually dehydrated. You're just breathing through your mouth. If you're waking up and your mouth is dry and there's not a lot of pee there, then you actually might actually legitimately be under hydrated. So a little bit of a game you can play there. Well, that's super informative. I think that the point alone that gulping a bunch of water all at once is going to cause you to need to excrete that water soon after is a really important point. Also for people that are going to give a talk or you don't want to have to get up to use the restroom. You have to sit through a long meeting. Clearly, I'm violating all these rules up until right now. I've been, you know, not I sort of follow the seagull approach to consuming fluids just gulping in enormous cause you to need to excrete that water soon after is a really important point. Also for people that are going to give a talk or you don't want to have to get up to use the restroom. You have to sit through a long meeting. Clearly, I'm violating all these rules up until right now. I've been, you know, not I sort of follow the seagull approach to consuming fluids just gulping in enormous volumes. I'm going to start sipping fluids instead. What are some of the other rules of hydration? So you're going to wake up, you're going to start your day and start hydrated. So you're consuming a larger percentage of your water earlier in the day. Then you get all the performance enhancing effects of water and you don't have to worry about it compromising your sleep. So that's step number one. Also now you're going to start your session closer to hydration. All right, great. Number two, volumes. I'm going to start sipping fluids instead. What are some of the other rules of hydration? So you're going to wake up, you're going to start your day and start hydrated. So you're consuming a larger percentage of your water earlier in the day. Then you get all the performance enhancing effects of water and you don't have to worry about it compromising your sleep. So that's step number one. Also now you're going to start your session closer to hydration. All right, great. Number two, eat mostly real-whole foods. Why? Interesting. What you may or not have thought about is a huge determinant of your hydration status is your food choices. If you look at different foods, for example, most fruit, watermelon, watermelon is like 95 plus percent water. Fantastic source. Also, by the way, since we're here, it is not extremely high in carbohydrate. It's not extremely high in sugar. It is by percentage, but it's since it's almost exclusively water you're eating. eat mostly real-whole foods. Why? Interesting. What you may or not have thought about is a huge determinant of your hydration status is your food choices. If you look at different foods, for example, most fruit, watermelon, watermelon is like 95 plus percent water. Fantastic source. Also, by the way, since we're here, it is not extremely high in carbohydrate. It's not extremely high in sugar. It is by percentage, but it's since it's almost exclusively water you're eating. It is not something that is extremely dangerous in terms of sugar. They're alone probably of all the things we've talked about in the six episodes. That comment right there will probably blow the internet to pieces and I'll probably get hate mail for life for it, but from people throwing water, throwing watermelons. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my gosh. The point is that sugar is necessarily bad. I think the point is that for most people, they're ingesting too much sugar. It is not something that is extremely dangerous in terms of sugar. They're alone probably of all the things we've talked about in the six episodes. That comment right there will probably blow the internet to pieces and I'll probably get hate mail for life for it, but from people throwing water, throwing watermelons. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my gosh. The point is that sugar is necessarily bad. I think the point is that for most people, they're ingesting too much sugar. Most people. Yeah. And it's interesting. Oftentimes, the people who are justifying the ingestion of sugar are exactly the kind of people that should not ingest so much sugar. So there's a little bit of a... Well, it's used to apply. The point here is if you're eating whole real food, this is like now we're kind of splitting hairs about those things. So... So, morning hydration, consume food. Yeah. Now, a important point here, if you compare it to other foods, like actually meat is a very high percentage of fluid. Most people. Yeah. And it's interesting. Oftentimes, the people who are justifying the ingestion of sugar are exactly the kind of people that should not ingest so much sugar. So there's a little bit of a... Well, it's used to apply. The point here is if you're eating whole real food, this is like now we're kind of splitting hairs about those things. So... So, morning hydration, consume food. Yeah. Now, a important point here, if you compare it to other foods, like actually meat is a very high percentage of fluid. Depending on how well or long you've cooked it, you will remember you said earlier, or 70% water, right? So if you're eating meat, you're getting actually a big chunk of water. As you cook it, of course, you lose some of that. But meat can be like... I wouldn't call it a hydrating food item, but it is not as low as something like a biscuit, which can be actually like 10% water. That's why it's like dry and dense, which doesn't mean it's bad for you, but there. If you're eating highly processed foods, almost by association, that means they've been dehydrated. Depending on how well or long you've cooked it, you will remember you said earlier, or 70% water, right? So if you're eating meat, you're getting actually a big chunk of water. As you cook it, of course, you lose some of that. But meat can be like... I wouldn't call it a hydrating food item, but it is not as low as something like a biscuit, which can be actually like 10% water. That's why it's like dry and dense, which doesn't mean it's bad for you, but there. If you're eating highly processed foods, almost by association, that means they've been dehydrated. Or, partially, right? So you're just getting less total fluid intake. In addition, they have also been highly salted. In general, right? So now we're in this position where we're underhydrated and highly salted. Bad spot. If you now switch over to mostly... I can just mostly hold real food-ish, whatever that means to you, then your hydration is going to skyrocket. You're going to have a lot. So you're eating a ton of food. In fact, it should be a large percentage of the fluid intake you have actually should be coming from your food. You shouldn't have to be Or, partially, right? So you're just getting less total fluid intake. In addition, they have also been highly salted. In general, right? So now we're in this position where we're underhydrated and highly salted. Bad spot. If you now switch over to mostly... I can just mostly hold real food-ish, whatever that means to you, then your hydration is going to skyrocket. You're going to have a lot. So you're eating a ton of food. In fact, it should be a large percentage of the fluid intake you have actually should be coming from your food. You shouldn't have to be smashing water bottles after water bottle all day. In that case, though, you do need to add salt back. So we do see this a lot when people who try to make a transition from maybe a suboptimal nutritional lifestyle, and they give up a little bit of other processed food and they come over... They start having problems because they're not actually consuming enough salt. So add that back. Easy way to do that. You can use electrolytes when we could talk about those numbers if you want. If you just salt your food that you're making, you know, to taste, that's going to get most people smashing water bottles after water bottle all day. In that case, though, you do need to add salt back. So we do see this a lot when people who try to make a transition from maybe a suboptimal nutritional lifestyle, and they give up a little bit of other processed food and they come over... They start having problems because they're not actually consuming enough salt. So add that back. Easy way to do that. You can use electrolytes when we could talk about those numbers if you want. If you just salt your food that you're making, you know, to taste, that's going to get most people in a pretty good spot. So start hydrated. Consume hydrating foods. Step number two. Step number three, you want to pre-hydrate. If you know you're going to do a workout session and it's going to be hot and long or one of those things, you want to look for that half a pound of per-body weight of ounces. So that's the number we're looking for to start our hydration session. We do that. We're pretty much taking care of. And then, like I said, adjust depending on lifestyle, in a pretty good spot. So start hydrated. Consume hydrating foods. Step number two. Step number three, you want to pre-hydrate. If you know you're going to do a workout session and it's going to be hot and long or one of those things, you want to look for that half a pound of per-body weight of ounces. So that's the number we're looking for to start our hydration session. We do that. We're pretty much taking care of. And then, like I said, adjust depending on lifestyle, humidity, and other factors like that. You can use what is called the what system? W-U-T. I think Bob Kendific has done a ton of research in this area if you want to read more, look up his research. It is simply weight, urine, and thirst. So in other words, check your body weight. Look at your urine color and gauge your thirst. And actually, you can use those three things. humidity, and other factors like that. You can use what is called the what system? W-U-T. I think Bob Kendific has done a ton of research in this area if you want to read more, look up his research. It is simply weight, urine, and thirst. So in other words, check your body weight. Look at your urine color and gauge your thirst. And actually, you can use those three things. And those can significantly predict actual hydration status, independent of actually measuring osmololidurism or anything like that. So those three metrics alone are pretty good indicator of where you're at. So you're going to have that normal amount of water plus or minus. If you miss that number for whatever reason, you get distracted. The number we typically tell people is like something like 400 to 500 milliliters of water in the hour proceeding the training. And those can significantly predict actual hydration status, independent of actually measuring osmololidurism or anything like that. So those three metrics alone are pretty good indicator of where you're at. So you're going to have that normal amount of water plus or minus. If you miss that number for whatever reason, you get distracted. The number we typically tell people is like something like 400 to 500 milliliters of water in the hour proceeding the training. All right. So that's like 13 to 20 ounces. So like you know, you're going to go work out at three o'clock. It's two o'clock and you realize, oh man, I have not drank a much water today. You don't need to go smash tons and tons and tons. Just look for something like that. You know, call it a bottle of water if you will. If that's not enough, if you're in a really tough spot, you can do more like five to eight ounces, 15 or 20 minutes before exercise. You want to be really All right. So that's like 13 to 20 ounces. So like you know, you're going to go work out at three o'clock. It's two o'clock and you realize, oh man, I have not drank a much water today. You don't need to go smash tons and tons and tons. Just look for something like that. You know, call it a bottle of water if you will. If that's not enough, if you're in a really tough spot, you can do more like five to eight ounces, 15 or 20 minutes before exercise. You want to be really careful about drinking a bunch of water like in the seconds before exercise because you're just going to feel a whole bunch of water bouncing up and down in your stomach and nobody likes that. So one to 300 milliliters, 15 or so, 20 to 20 minutes before. That assumes you're in this like 185 pound range. Yes. Again, if you're talking people of much larger size, you may need to increase those values accordingly. If you do all that, then you use the Galapun equation for your intro workout. careful about drinking a bunch of water like in the seconds before exercise because you're just going to feel a whole bunch of water bouncing up and down in your stomach and nobody likes that. So one to 300 milliliters, 15 or so, 20 to 20 minutes before. That assumes you're in this like 185 pound range. Yes. Again, if you're talking people of much larger size, you may need to increase those values accordingly. If you do all that, then you use the Galapun equation for your intro workout. Hydration and you're in a pretty good spot. What you want to consume in that is what I call sweat. What I mean by that is you don't actually want to necessarily consume water only during a workout. You want to consume something that is iso-osmotic to your blood. So something that is the same concentration that you lost in your sweat. So if you've done a sweat test, you would then drink a Hydration and you're in a pretty good spot. What you want to consume in that is what I call sweat. What I mean by that is you don't actually want to necessarily consume water only during a workout. You want to consume something that is iso-osmotic to your blood. So something that is the same concentration that you lost in your sweat. So if you've done a sweat test, you would then drink a Fluid that is of the same osmolality. The short version of that, something in the neighborhood of 200 to 400 milligrams of sodium. Most electrolytes products are going to be something like that. Now I know element is a thousand milligrams and it's a lot higher. But most products now that you're going to find are 250 to 400 milligrams. And they're typically in the like two to maybe have to three to one sodium to potassium range. Fluid that is of the same osmolality. The short version of that, something in the neighborhood of 200 to 400 milligrams of sodium. Most electrolytes products are going to be something like that. Now I know element is a thousand milligrams and it's a lot higher. But most products now that you're going to find are 250 to 400 milligrams. And they're typically in the like two to maybe have to three to one sodium to potassium range. Right. Coconut water is actually cool. It's like basically the opposite. Like a cup of coconut water, I think has something like 200 milligrams of sodium, but like 600 milligrams of potassium. So like total spoiler alert, but we'll use coconut water a lot of hydration. Just add a little pinch of salt because that'll bring the sodium way back up. Yeah, one note about sodium. Obviously people who have pre-hypertension or hypertension want to be careful with their sodium intake. Anytime I've suggested that people might consider Right. Coconut water is actually cool. It's like basically the opposite. Like a cup of coconut water, I think has something like 200 milligrams of sodium, but like 600 milligrams of potassium. So like total spoiler alert, but we'll use coconut water a lot of hydration. Just add a little pinch of salt because that'll bring the sodium way back up. Yeah, one note about sodium. Obviously people who have pre-hypertension or hypertension want to be careful with their sodium intake. Anytime I've suggested that people might consider ingesting more sodium. It's like putting a target on your back. And yet, the data are pretty good showing that if people are not getting enough sodium, their mental clarity, their focus, their mental stamina, their physical stamina really suffers. And then people argue, well, most of us are getting too much salt. That often is true for people that are eating a lot of processed foods and not training and not training. But for many people who are already sort of ingesting more sodium. It's like putting a target on your back. And yet, the data are pretty good showing that if people are not getting enough sodium, their mental clarity, their focus, their mental stamina, their physical stamina really suffers. And then people argue, well, most of us are getting too much salt. That often is true for people that are eating a lot of processed foods and not training and not training. But for many people who are already sort of health conscious, who are training, they're largely consuming, or I should say they're consuming largely non processed or minimally processed foods. And especially for folks who are not ingesting many carbohydrates and are consuming caffeine. You know, a lot of people don't know that carbohydrates hold water. And that makes it sound bad. It's not necessarily that you're going to get subcutaneous swelling of your body. It's bringing water into your system and it holds water. So when you drop health conscious, who are training, they're largely consuming, or I should say they're consuming largely non processed or minimally processed foods. And especially for folks who are not ingesting many carbohydrates and are consuming caffeine. You know, a lot of people don't know that carbohydrates hold water. And that makes it sound bad. It's not necessarily that you're going to get subcutaneous swelling of your body. It's bringing water into your system and it holds water. So when you drop carbohydrate, it starches in particular. You urinate a lot more. And when you drink caffeine, you also urinate a lot more, as you pointed out earlier. So you start combining a few things, like slightly lower carbohydrate or low carbohydrate, eating really quote unquote clean. You're not getting a lot of salt in your food. And drinking caffeine and then exercising. And then pretty soon, those numbers that come along with, you know, a gram of sodium in your electrolyte drink are not carbohydrate, it starches in particular. You urinate a lot more. And when you drink caffeine, you also urinate a lot more, as you pointed out earlier. So you start combining a few things, like slightly lower carbohydrate or low carbohydrate, eating really quote unquote clean. You're not getting a lot of salt in your food. And drinking caffeine and then exercising. And then pretty soon, those numbers that come along with, you know, a gram of sodium in your electrolyte drink are not all that outrageous. And what you find is people feel much, much better when they're getting enough sodium. And of course, I should say that there's no reason why someone has to ingest a supplement like element or something. There are plenty of other ways to bring sodium into your system. You use a pinch of pink salt or Himalayan salt or sea salt or even just table salt in water, or just making sure that you're salting your food enough. And I think that there too, salt all that outrageous. And what you find is people feel much, much better when they're getting enough sodium. And of course, I should say that there's no reason why someone has to ingest a supplement like element or something. There are plenty of other ways to bring sodium into your system. You use a pinch of pink salt or Himalayan salt or sea salt or even just table salt in water, or just making sure that you're salting your food enough. And I think that there too, salt appetite and salt taste is a pretty good guide. If you taste something and it tastes really salty to you, that's an indication that either it's really salty or your salt stores are kind of tapped off. You're okay. Whereas if you're craving salt and you're thinking, gosh, I really want to put salt on this already salty thing, not necessarily, but oftentimes that means that you're salt deficient. So salt appetite is a pretty hardwired set of neural circuits and hormones. And I appetite and salt taste is a pretty good guide. If you taste something and it tastes really salty to you, that's an indication that either it's really salty or your salt stores are kind of tapped off. You're okay. Whereas if you're craving salt and you're thinking, gosh, I really want to put salt on this already salty thing, not necessarily, but oftentimes that means that you're salt deficient. So salt appetite is a pretty hardwired set of neural circuits and hormones. And I think we would all be wise to learn to tap into the or kind of intuition about salt intake. But of course, also to measure your blood pressure, et cetera. Yeah, of course. If you think you have some sort of contraindication there that work with the medical specialist without without question, those situations you laid out that were very real. A lot of people are living like that. And so it's important for those folks to understand if you are going through symptoms fatigue, lack of focus, cognitive function, performances in there, then hey, like you may be under salted. think we would all be wise to learn to tap into the or kind of intuition about salt intake. But of course, also to measure your blood pressure, et cetera. Yeah, of course. If you think you have some sort of contraindication there that work with the medical specialist without without question, those situations you laid out that were very real. A lot of people are living like that. And so it's important for those folks to understand if you are going through symptoms fatigue, lack of focus, cognitive function, performances in there, then hey, like you may be under salted. And again, actually a good amount of blood chemistry work can unravel that a lot. And it can sort of tell you if you're going out of whack. There are a number of folks who are extremely sensitive sodium in terms of health risk. And that is a real thing. Again, work with your individual folks on that. I don't work with anyone for a disease treatment or management at all. I've said that probably four times. I'll say it six more times. I only take people who are healthy and try to make them perform at their best possible level. So it's actually funny to mention that And again, actually a good amount of blood chemistry work can unravel that a lot. And it can sort of tell you if you're going out of whack. There are a number of folks who are extremely sensitive sodium in terms of health risk. And that is a real thing. Again, work with your individual folks on that. I don't work with anyone for a disease treatment or management at all. I've said that probably four times. I'll say it six more times. I only take people who are healthy and try to make them perform at their best possible level. So it's actually funny to mention that because I was going to give people my recommendation for sodium intake in general throughout the day. And then I decided I'm not going to say that because all it's going to do is make all the rest of the people who aren't coming to come after me for the watermelon comment come after me for that. So all the end of the day's episode of the goal is that everyone's coming after you. But also that everyone has learned something of value. You've already given us tremendous insights and actionable information on creatine and hydration. And along those lines, I'd love for you to because I was going to give people my recommendation for sodium intake in general throughout the day. And then I decided I'm not going to say that because all it's going to do is make all the rest of the people who aren't coming to come after me for the watermelon comment come after me for that. So all the end of the day's episode of the goal is that everyone's coming after you. But also that everyone has learned something of value. You've already given us tremendous insights and actionable information on creatine and hydration. And along those lines, I'd love for you to tell us about some of the things that we can do with supplementation in order to enhance training by taking certain things before we train. And I also have the question of how long before training should we start thinking about supplying nutrients and supplements for the training session? I'm not sure I actually finished my fiber. Maybe I wasn't clear enough about the last one. So I just want to tie that that bow and then we'll go to the next one. Yeah, no, it was probably tell us about some of the things that we can do with supplementation in order to enhance training by taking certain things before we train. And I also have the question of how long before training should we start thinking about supplying nutrients and supplements for the training session? I'm not sure I actually finished my fiber. Maybe I wasn't clear enough about the last one. So I just want to tie that that bow and then we'll go to the next one. Yeah, no, it was probably my fault. So that in addition to the Gallup integration in terms of amount, I'm recommend I'm recommend it a roughly three to one sodium to potassium recommendation and I gave you some rough numbers things look that I actually in all honesty used probably six to 10 different electrolyte companies depending on the situation. Some of them are really good in the case again like element. It's nice about that is there's no carbohydrate. However, the downside is there's my fault. So that in addition to the Gallup integration in terms of amount, I'm recommend I'm recommend it a roughly three to one sodium to potassium recommendation and I gave you some rough numbers things look that I actually in all honesty used probably six to 10 different electrolyte companies depending on the situation. Some of them are really good in the case again like element. It's nice about that is there's no carbohydrate. However, the downside is there's no carbohydrate. So sometimes I want carbohydrates in the training because as you mentioned, there's significant evidence going back actually several decades on the benefit of carbohydrate during exercise. So if you're in a situation where you're trying to again maximize actual exercise performance, you especially if it is either a long duration, so more than two hours or extremely high intensity and this has to be well north of 100% of your VO2 max. no carbohydrate. So sometimes I want carbohydrates in the training because as you mentioned, there's significant evidence going back actually several decades on the benefit of carbohydrate during exercise. So if you're in a situation where you're trying to again maximize actual exercise performance, you especially if it is either a long duration, so more than two hours or extremely high intensity and this has to be well north of 100% of your VO2 max. And that situation as we talked about in the endurance episode, you can actually start having a decrement in performance because of a drop of muscle glycogen. A gliboric glycogen can start coming down. If that's the case, augmenting with carbohydrates during the training, then it's going to enhance performance. It's going to do what we call spare the liver and it's going to keep my second rule of my four, which is maintain glucose ingestion. It's going to keep that And that situation as we talked about in the endurance episode, you can actually start having a decrement in performance because of a drop of muscle glycogen. A gliboric glycogen can start coming down. If that's the case, augmenting with carbohydrates during the training, then it's going to enhance performance. It's going to do what we call spare the liver and it's going to keep my second rule of my four, which is maintain glucose ingestion. It's going to keep that In general, what you're going to find is the number is like a five to nine percent glucose concentration in your fluid, which turns out to be like exactly the number that most sports drinks have as well as I think that's pretty much exactly what coconut water is. The downside of sports drinks, since we're here, is they actually tend to be under salted and so that they don't provide enough of them. If you look at the numbers, they're going to say something like 60 to 100 In general, what you're going to find is the number is like a five to nine percent glucose concentration in your fluid, which turns out to be like exactly the number that most sports drinks have as well as I think that's pretty much exactly what coconut water is. The downside of sports drinks, since we're here, is they actually tend to be under salted and so that they don't provide enough of them. If you look at the numbers, they're going to say something like 60 to 100 grams of carbohydrate per hour is the target. Now, if you're using the sort of gallon pump equation and you're splitting that up into 15 minute intervals, it's something again like 20 or so grams of carbs per 15 to 20 minutes. If you're doing again an hour long plus training, so admittedly, 100 grams is a bit much for some folk depending on your size. I would recommend starting in that 60 gram or so range, again per hour total is what you want to get to. grams of carbohydrate per hour is the target. Now, if you're using the sort of gallon pump equation and you're splitting that up into 15 minute intervals, it's something again like 20 or so grams of carbs per 15 to 20 minutes. If you're doing again an hour long plus training, so admittedly, 100 grams is a bit much for some folk depending on your size. I would recommend starting in that 60 gram or so range, again per hour total is what you want to get to. Only in the situation in which muscle glycogen depletion is becoming a limiting factor to performance. The other benefit of that is, as you mentioned, that actually drives water into the cell. You're going to be in that nice sweet spot of you're actually keeping glucose going, which is going to enhance performance and you're helping hydration at the same time. The other little part that's important to pay attention to here is the type of carbohydrate matters. Only in the situation in which muscle glycogen depletion is becoming a limiting factor to performance. The other benefit of that is, as you mentioned, that actually drives water into the cell. You're going to be in that nice sweet spot of you're actually keeping glucose going, which is going to enhance performance and you're helping hydration at the same time. The other little part that's important to pay attention to here is the type of carbohydrate matters. You can use actually a whole combination of things called resistance starches, which I will use for a long bouts of exercise, but in the middle of the workout, you're going to want to focus on glucose and fructose, mostly glucose. Typically, at least a two or three to one ratio of glucose to fructose. The reason is, those actually get into tissue through separate transporters. What happens is once the glucose transporters get full, you can't bring anything else in. However, You can use actually a whole combination of things called resistance starches, which I will use for a long bouts of exercise, but in the middle of the workout, you're going to want to focus on glucose and fructose, mostly glucose. Typically, at least a two or three to one ratio of glucose to fructose. The reason is, those actually get into tissue through separate transporters. What happens is once the glucose transporters get full, you can't bring anything else in. However, since fructose comes in a separate route, you can maximize total carbohydrate intake by using two different unique forms. There's a lot of ways you can do this, but this is where the momentus fuel product specifically has that exactly in it. It's fantastic. You can use food, no problem. You can use the combination of things like honey and different easily absorbable and usable, since fructose comes in a separate route, you can maximize total carbohydrate intake by using two different unique forms. There's a lot of ways you can do this, but this is where the momentus fuel product specifically has that exactly in it. It's fantastic. You can use food, no problem. You can use the combination of things like honey and different easily absorbable and usable, and things that you can actually maybe put in and drink to get away with. There's lots of routes for it, but you want to look in that combination of 5 to 9% roughly glucose for there. You do need to train your gut, so do not do anything, and there's a generally a good rule. Do not do anything in your competition that you've never done in practice. Try these food items, try these and things that you can actually maybe put in and drink to get away with. There's lots of routes for it, but you want to look in that combination of 5 to 9% roughly glucose for there. You do need to train your gut, so do not do anything, and there's a generally a good rule. Do not do anything in your competition that you've never done in practice. Try these food items, try these amounts, the carbohydrate numbers, try the sodium numbers, try the total amount of water, start low, you can always increase. What you don't want to do is have to run out during the middle of your spin class and sprint to the bathroom and hope nobody's in your way, which in the lab we've seen, we'll just say accidents like that occur more than once, so just be careful of your stomach. I'd like to take a brief break to acknowledge our sponsor inside tracker. Inside tracker is a amounts, the carbohydrate numbers, try the sodium numbers, try the total amount of water, start low, you can always increase. What you don't want to do is have to run out during the middle of your spin class and sprint to the bathroom and hope nobody's in your way, which in the lab we've seen, we'll just say accidents like that occur more than once, so just be careful of your stomach. I'd like to take a brief break to acknowledge our sponsor inside tracker. Inside tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood worked on for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health and well-being can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. One issue with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there, however, is that you get information back about various levels of lipids and hormones and metabolic factors, etc. But you don't know what to do with that information. personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood worked on for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health and well-being can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. One issue with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there, however, is that you get information back about various levels of lipids and hormones and metabolic factors, etc. But you don't know what to do with that information. Inside Tracker makes knowing what to do with all that information exceedingly easy. They have a personalized platform that lets you see what your specific numbers are, of course, but then also what sorts of behavioral dos and don'ts, what sorts of nutritional changes, what sorts of supplementation would allow you to bring those levels into the ranges that are optimal for you. If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can visit insidetracker.com slash huberman to get 20% off any of Inside Tracker's plans. Again, that's insidetracker.com slash huberman to get 20% off. Inside Tracker makes knowing what to do with all that information exceedingly easy. They have a personalized platform that lets you see what your specific numbers are, of course, but then also what sorts of behavioral dos and don'ts, what sorts of nutritional changes, what sorts of supplementation would allow you to bring those levels into the ranges that are optimal for you. If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can visit insidetracker.com slash huberman to get 20% off any of Inside Tracker's plans. Again, that's insidetracker.com slash huberman to get 20% off. I realized I jumped the gun a little bit asking about supplementation for before, during, and after a workout, because what I neglected to ask about was training in the fasted state. This is something that we talked about in an earlier episode, but I think it's worth highlighting now. Sometimes the best way to supplement, if you will, a workout or pre-workout is ingesting nothing. I'm one of these people actually prefer to do my weight training somewhere between 7 and 8 AM each I realized I jumped the gun a little bit asking about supplementation for before, during, and after a workout, because what I neglected to ask about was training in the fasted state. This is something that we talked about in an earlier episode, but I think it's worth highlighting now. Sometimes the best way to supplement, if you will, a workout or pre-workout is ingesting nothing. I'm one of these people actually prefer to do my weight training somewhere between 7 and 8 AM each morning. Sometimes a little earlier, sometimes a little bit later, I drink fluid, water, and I do ingest caffeine prior to those training days. On days when I don't train, I do, as I often recommend people do, delay my caffeine intake, 90 to 120 minutes after waking, but in any event, it's water and caffeine, your bramate or coffee or some sort of stimulant for weight training workouts, morning. Sometimes a little earlier, sometimes a little bit later, I drink fluid, water, and I do ingest caffeine prior to those training days. On days when I don't train, I do, as I often recommend people do, delay my caffeine intake, 90 to 120 minutes after waking, but in any event, it's water and caffeine, your bramate or coffee or some sort of stimulant for weight training workouts, and generally not for cardiovascular training workouts, although sometimes yes. So I'm training fasted. That said, I'm ingesting carbohydrate the night before to make sure that my I have glycogen stores that are topped off. And so it's fasted, but with that caveat, what are your thoughts on training fasted? And what I just described is fasted overnight, but some people are training and generally not for cardiovascular training workouts, although sometimes yes. So I'm training fasted. That said, I'm ingesting carbohydrate the night before to make sure that my I have glycogen stores that are topped off. And so it's fasted, but with that caveat, what are your thoughts on training fasted? And what I just described is fasted overnight, but some people are training in the afternoon, and they may opt to not eat anything in the, you know, two to four hours prior to training or maybe even longer. I personally find that caffeine hits my system a lot better when I'm fasted. Better meaning it just seems to have more of a potent effect. There are some reasons for that. And of course, we just swayed people from ingesting caffeine too late in the day because they'll disrupt sleep. So I'm not saying fasted for three hours than during caffeine, but who knows? Maybe in the afternoon, and they may opt to not eat anything in the, you know, two to four hours prior to training or maybe even longer. I personally find that caffeine hits my system a lot better when I'm fasted. Better meaning it just seems to have more of a potent effect. There are some reasons for that. And of course, we just swayed people from ingesting caffeine too late in the day because they'll disrupt sleep. So I'm not saying fasted for three hours than during caffeine, but who knows? Maybe that's in your protocol. The simple version of this question is what are your thoughts on training fasted? And if people are going to train fasted, how should they modulate their fluid intake if it all? What happens with exercise in the endurance and metabolism episode? We walk through in the fact that no matter what you're using for fuel, carbohydrates or fat or even other potential sources, that's in your protocol. The simple version of this question is what are your thoughts on training fasted? And if people are going to train fasted, how should they modulate their fluid intake if it all? What happens with exercise in the endurance and metabolism episode? We walk through in the fact that no matter what you're using for fuel, carbohydrates or fat or even other potential sources, the end product of all of those is ATP, CO2 and water. So you're trying to make ATP. That is the fuel for exercise. Now ATP is a dentists in triphosphate. So one, two, three phosphates on top of an dentists. Well, what you may have not put together is if you hydrolyze ATP and you break off one of those phosphates, you now have ADP. If you do it again, you have AMP, a dentists in monophosphate. the end product of all of those is ATP, CO2 and water. So you're trying to make ATP. That is the fuel for exercise. Now ATP is a dentists in triphosphate. So one, two, three phosphates on top of an dentists. Well, what you may have not put together is if you hydrolyze ATP and you break off one of those phosphates, you now have ADP. If you do it again, you have AMP, a dentists in monophosphate. If you do it one more time, now you just have a dentists in. And if you have then, therefore run through a lot of exercise, burned a lot of energy, you have increased the amount of adenosine that's floating around. Now, if you have a high concentration of adenosine, what's that going to make you want to do? That's going to bind to certain receptors and when we know when those receptors get bound to, you fall asleep. Bingo. Caffeine will competitively bind to those If you do it one more time, now you just have a dentists in. And if you have then, therefore run through a lot of exercise, burned a lot of energy, you have increased the amount of adenosine that's floating around. Now, if you have a high concentration of adenosine, what's that going to make you want to do? That's going to bind to certain receptors and when we know when those receptors get bound to, you fall asleep. Bingo. Caffeine will competitively bind to those receptors. Therefore, that's why caffeine stops you from feeling like you want to go to sleep. We have a very clear relationship between exercise fuel. In fact, if you look at the literature, there's a pretty clear relationship between the more caloric expenditure in different sports and the higher amount of hours needed for sleep. There is a nice tie between how hard you're exercising, how much energy you're burning, how much you need to sleep, stimulants, which brings us receptors. Therefore, that's why caffeine stops you from feeling like you want to go to sleep. We have a very clear relationship between exercise fuel. In fact, if you look at the literature, there's a pretty clear relationship between the more caloric expenditure in different sports and the higher amount of hours needed for sleep. There is a nice tie between how hard you're exercising, how much energy you're burning, how much you need to sleep, stimulants, which brings us all the way back to your question of fueling. So, do I need to fuel prior to my exercise? If you're going to be limited in your exercise about by fuel, then fueling is necessary one way or the other. If it is a type of training that is not, then it's not going to matter. So, the examples we gave, if you're doing, if you're going to go do a 30 second about a maximal exertion and you're going all the way back to your question of fueling. So, do I need to fuel prior to my exercise? If you're going to be limited in your exercise about by fuel, then fueling is necessary one way or the other. If it is a type of training that is not, then it's not going to matter. So, the examples we gave, if you're doing, if you're going to go do a 30 second about a maximal exertion and you're going to do a one time, you don't need to worry about fueling at all. We're eating within your workout because only 30 seconds. You don't need to worry about hydration, post-exercise, you don't need to worry about recovery. Total energy expenditure was nothing. If you're going to go, you know, you're going to go practice, you're going to go to the driving range and practice your golf swing. You don't need to worry about it. The total amount of energy expenditure is just not high. In fact, in that case, you might want to keep it somewhat low because you want to keep blood glucose fairly to do a one time, you don't need to worry about fueling at all. We're eating within your workout because only 30 seconds. You don't need to worry about hydration, post-exercise, you don't need to worry about recovery. Total energy expenditure was nothing. If you're going to go, you know, you're going to go practice, you're going to go to the driving range and practice your golf swing. You don't need to worry about it. The total amount of energy expenditure is just not high. In fact, in that case, you might want to keep it somewhat low because you want to keep blood glucose fairly even. You don't want to bring it into the system. You certainly wouldn't want to use stimulants. All right, because you may get over exerted inside. In all of these things, we probably should have started off our conversation with this. In terms of macronutrients, the total amount throughout the day is more important generally than the timing of them, which is why you can do things like have a bunch of carbohydrate at night, not eat the next morning and lift and be just fine. It even. You don't want to bring it into the system. You certainly wouldn't want to use stimulants. All right, because you may get over exerted inside. In all of these things, we probably should have started off our conversation with this. In terms of macronutrients, the total amount throughout the day is more important generally than the timing of them, which is why you can do things like have a bunch of carbohydrate at night, not eat the next morning and lift and be just fine. It doesn't matter that you didn't have them in a few hours before. Your muscle glycogen is topped off. Your liver is glycogen is topped off. You're absolutely fine. You have plenty of fuel. Even if you're to wait a few more hours, in fact, even if you were to do conditioning, you're probably fine. I have plenty of athletes that prefer to do many of their transcessions faster than morning for personal reasons, not because it enhances performance, but if it doesn't enhance or harm it, then it's a personal preference thing. Fine. doesn't matter that you didn't have them in a few hours before. Your muscle glycogen is topped off. Your liver is glycogen is topped off. You're absolutely fine. You have plenty of fuel. Even if you're to wait a few more hours, in fact, even if you were to do conditioning, you're probably fine. I have plenty of athletes that prefer to do many of their transcessions faster than morning for personal reasons, not because it enhances performance, but if it doesn't enhance or harm it, then it's a personal preference thing. Fine. If you're going to go to a session, though, where you're going to be really concerned with muscle glycogen depletion, and again, you can go back that episode to learn different types when those thresholds hits and what you're worried about. Then, if feeling would be important, you would either need to have something before the session or consume it during the session. One of the other things we'd like to say here is recovery starts during the previous workout. If you're working out right now and you optimize nutrition If you're going to go to a session, though, where you're going to be really concerned with muscle glycogen depletion, and again, you can go back that episode to learn different types when those thresholds hits and what you're worried about. Then, if feeling would be important, you would either need to have something before the session or consume it during the session. One of the other things we'd like to say here is recovery starts during the previous workout. If you're working out right now and you optimize nutrition even if you don't necessarily need it for the current workout, if you can get a head on recovery, then you're going to be fine the next day. The differentiation here between carbohydrate and protein is important. The total amount of protein you ingest throughout the day is probably a bigger determinant for things like muscle growth than the timing. The post-exercise animalic window, it doesn't necessarily matter. Carbohydrate is different. The timing of that does matter. even if you don't necessarily need it for the current workout, if you can get a head on recovery, then you're going to be fine the next day. The differentiation here between carbohydrate and protein is important. The total amount of protein you ingest throughout the day is probably a bigger determinant for things like muscle growth than the timing. The post-exercise animalic window, it doesn't necessarily matter. Carbohydrate is different. The timing of that does matter. It needs to be around and available. You can maximize both hydration and muscle glycogen re-synthesis, which is restoring the muscle glycogen you burned during exercise. I also work with athletes that train multiple times a day. In those particular cases, recovery window is half, but you normally have. If you're in a situation where you have two or three days before you work out again, you don't need to worry about getting carbohydrate before or during our after. Because by the time you go to train again, you will have restored your muscle glycogen levels It needs to be around and available. You can maximize both hydration and muscle glycogen re-synthesis, which is restoring the muscle glycogen you burned during exercise. I also work with athletes that train multiple times a day. In those particular cases, recovery window is half, but you normally have. If you're in a situation where you have two or three days before you work out again, you don't need to worry about getting carbohydrate before or during our after. Because by the time you go to train again, you will have restored your muscle glycogen levels easily. However, if you're training every day or twice in a day, then the timing of carbohydrate really starts to matter. In that case, I see no reason to not ingest those nutrients either before during our after. You don't need to necessarily do it, but you can. The general rule of thumb I give is something like this. If you're doing something where you're trying to really work hard, whether this is hypertrophy training or a lot of endurance, energy expenditure is going to be high, easily. However, if you're training every day or twice in a day, then the timing of carbohydrate really starts to matter. In that case, I see no reason to not ingest those nutrients either before during our after. You don't need to necessarily do it, but you can. The general rule of thumb I give is something like this. If you're doing something where you're trying to really work hard, whether this is hypertrophy training or a lot of endurance, energy expenditure is going to be high, potential muscle damage is high and or energy utilization is high. What you want to look for is a number something in the area of like half a gram of carbohydrate per pound of body weight. So you weigh 200 pounds. You want to make sure that either pre-mid or post or total, you bring in 100 grams of carbohydrate. It's just a very rough number to start. Protein is about half potential muscle damage is high and or energy utilization is high. What you want to look for is a number something in the area of like half a gram of carbohydrate per pound of body weight. So you weigh 200 pounds. You want to make sure that either pre-mid or post or total, you bring in 100 grams of carbohydrate. It's just a very rough number to start. Protein is about half of that. So it's about a quarter of your body weight. So those numbers would be if you're 200 pounds, make sure you have 100 grams of carbs and 50 grams of protein. And again, it doesn't necessarily have to be before or during or after. And you'll be in a good spot. All you need to do then is alter what I do, I should say, is alter the amount of carbohydrate based on energy expenditure. of that. So it's about a quarter of your body weight. So those numbers would be if you're 200 pounds, make sure you have 100 grams of carbs and 50 grams of protein. And again, it doesn't necessarily have to be before or during or after. And you'll be in a good spot. All you need to do then is alter what I do, I should say, is alter the amount of carbohydrate based on energy expenditure. So a lower energy and easier workout instead of having 100 grams of carbs, I might tech that down to 75 or even 50 and be at a one to one carb protein ratio. If it was even harder, more sun, hotter outside, more fluid loss, I might go from 100 grams of carbs up to 150 or 200. And get closer to like a three to one or four to one carbohydrate to protein ratio. So those are So a lower energy and easier workout instead of having 100 grams of carbs, I might tech that down to 75 or even 50 and be at a one to one carb protein ratio. If it was even harder, more sun, hotter outside, more fluid loss, I might go from 100 grams of carbs up to 150 or 200. And get closer to like a three to one or four to one carbohydrate to protein ratio. So those are the numbers that I generally go by. Well, as I take a sip of my double espresso, Americano, here I'd love for you to tell us about stimulants. Sure, there's no shortage of these in most of our lives. And of course, you can cover the health benefits of it later. Maybe you have an episode. Yes, we have an episode on caffeine and it does have certain health benefits, although one has to use caffeine correctly in order to drive those. So there's caffeine is the easy one to start with the numbers that I generally go by. Well, as I take a sip of my double espresso, Americano, here I'd love for you to tell us about stimulants. Sure, there's no shortage of these in most of our lives. And of course, you can cover the health benefits of it later. Maybe you have an episode. Yes, we have an episode on caffeine and it does have certain health benefits, although one has to use caffeine correctly in order to drive those. So there's caffeine is the easy one to start with and we won't believe at the point here, the evidence is strong. It has an regurgent effect. You can take it at whatever dosage is reasonable for you. And of course, there is a bit of a learning curve there such that obviously the more you take it, the more you need to take, even though there's actually some recent evidence showing even folks who are acclimated to it, we'll still see an regurgent benefit even though if they don't feel a big boost of it. So typically that takes 30 to 45 and we won't believe at the point here, the evidence is strong. It has an regurgent effect. You can take it at whatever dosage is reasonable for you. And of course, there is a bit of a learning curve there such that obviously the more you take it, the more you need to take, even though there's actually some recent evidence showing even folks who are acclimated to it, we'll still see an regurgent benefit even though if they don't feel a big boost of it. So typically that takes 30 to 45 minutes or so, but it's highly dependent upon the person. So some people can smell coffee and immediately feel better and that's probably working actually through a different mechanism of anticipation. But you can take it there. Half life of it is, you know, four to six hours or something like that. It can totally depends on the person. So don't let it run your sleep. But if you take it prior to performance, it has a noticeable effect on particularly endurance. Maximum strength minutes or so, but it's highly dependent upon the person. So some people can smell coffee and immediately feel better and that's probably working actually through a different mechanism of anticipation. But you can take it there. Half life of it is, you know, four to six hours or something like that. It can totally depends on the person. So don't let it run your sleep. But if you take it prior to performance, it has a noticeable effect on particularly endurance. Maximum strength may be less, well, quite clearly less so. In fact, the data are mixed there on whether it actually does anything for peak strength. Although I think most people would suggest that, you know, you're going to take it prior to trying to truly lift as high as trying to, you know, lift a one-optition max or similar. But most of the, the documented effects are on the endurance-based activities. Yes. So my read of the literature in terms of performance enhancing effects of caffeine are that may be less, well, quite clearly less so. In fact, the data are mixed there on whether it actually does anything for peak strength. Although I think most people would suggest that, you know, you're going to take it prior to trying to truly lift as high as trying to, you know, lift a one-optition max or similar. But most of the, the documented effects are on the endurance-based activities. Yes. So my read of the literature in terms of performance enhancing effects of caffeine are that one to three milligrams. I want to make sure that people hear the units correctly before you will blitz themselves out of that caffeine. One to three milligrams per kilogram of body weight, about 30 minutes prior to exercise has a definite performance enhancing effect. It also has a definite mental performance enhancing effect, especially when people who are regular caffeine one to three milligrams. I want to make sure that people hear the units correctly before you will blitz themselves out of that caffeine. One to three milligrams per kilogram of body weight, about 30 minutes prior to exercise has a definite performance enhancing effect. It also has a definite mental performance enhancing effect, especially when people who are regular caffeine have abstained from caffeine for anywhere from two to 15 days. And that's an extremely rare circumstance. But even if they have not, it appears that one to three milligrams per kilogram of body weight of caffeine taken about, I can't it's not super precise as far as I can see, about 30 minutes before the event starts, can really enhance reaction time and power output and have abstained from caffeine for anywhere from two to 15 days. And that's an extremely rare circumstance. But even if they have not, it appears that one to three milligrams per kilogram of body weight of caffeine taken about, I can't it's not super precise as far as I can see, about 30 minutes before the event starts, can really enhance reaction time and power output and as well as as he mentioned endurance. When I was researching the caffeine episode, one interesting caveat that I discovered was that if people are not caffeine adapted, they are not regular users of caffeine. The sudden introduction of caffeine can really degrade performance mostly because people don't know how to operate at that high level of autonomic arousal. Have you ever observed that? Yeah, 100%. In fact, there's actually data going up as high as 10 milligrams per kilogram as well as as he mentioned endurance. When I was researching the caffeine episode, one interesting caveat that I discovered was that if people are not caffeine adapted, they are not regular users of caffeine. The sudden introduction of caffeine can really degrade performance mostly because people don't know how to operate at that high level of autonomic arousal. Have you ever observed that? Yeah, 100%. In fact, there's actually data going up as high as 10 milligrams per kilogram of body weight, which is in fact, once you cross the 5 milligram per kilogram threshold, you will start seeing performance decrements. There's absolutely such a thing of ruining your performance with too much caffeine. Most people listening to this, if you're thinking, wow, they said caffeine, I'm all in and then you just stop listening and now you go for your quad espresso shot before every time you go to workout. You're probably passing that threshold. of body weight, which is in fact, once you cross the 5 milligram per kilogram threshold, you will start seeing performance decrements. There's absolutely such a thing of ruining your performance with too much caffeine. Most people listening to this, if you're thinking, wow, they said caffeine, I'm all in and then you just stop listening and now you go for your quad espresso shot before every time you go to workout. You're probably passing that threshold. If you think about those numbers, 1 to 3 milligrams per kilogram body weight, if you weigh 100 kilograms, that's 220 pounds. That'd be something like two to 500 milligrams of caffeine, which is like a pretty high amount, but a coffee is going to get you close and espresso is going to get you somewhat in that ballpark, depending on sources of, so you don't really need to go and blister your brain with caffeine. In fact, if you do, it's quite common and in fact, likely, that you'll actually If you think about those numbers, 1 to 3 milligrams per kilogram body weight, if you weigh 100 kilograms, that's 220 pounds. That'd be something like two to 500 milligrams of caffeine, which is like a pretty high amount, but a coffee is going to get you close and espresso is going to get you somewhat in that ballpark, depending on sources of, so you don't really need to go and blister your brain with caffeine. In fact, if you do, it's quite common and in fact, likely, that you'll actually make performance worse. The amount of caffeine in different coffees and sodas, etc., of course, varies. One thing that people ought to know is that the smallest of commercially available coffees at the most popular commercial vendors generally contain anywhere from 250 to 350 milligrams of caffeine. What that means is that the so-called medium and the large contain as much as make performance worse. The amount of caffeine in different coffees and sodas, etc., of course, varies. One thing that people ought to know is that the smallest of commercially available coffees at the most popular commercial vendors generally contain anywhere from 250 to 350 milligrams of caffeine. What that means is that the so-called medium and the large contain as much as 500 milligrams or one gram of caffeine. For you, morning, large coffee at commercial vendor drinkers, if you're wondering why you get a headache if you're 30 minutes late on that caffeine, or if you can't access that caffeine at all, or even if you're drinking coffee, excuse me, from another source, you're finding like, oh, it's really not doing it for me. It's because the amount 500 milligrams or one gram of caffeine. For you, morning, large coffee at commercial vendor drinkers, if you're wondering why you get a headache if you're 30 minutes late on that caffeine, or if you can't access that caffeine at all, or even if you're drinking coffee, excuse me, from another source, you're finding like, oh, it's really not doing it for me. It's because the amount of caffeine in the now commercially sold coffees is exceedingly high. It's about two or three times higher than the standard lookup tables that you'll see on the internet. So I'm not saying that to demonize caffeine. We can pretty quickly adapt to and form a tolerance to caffeine. Some people never really can get over the jitters. Other people are just fine with even a thousand milligrams of caffeine, but only because they've been drinking a lot of caffeine consistently. Anyway, of caffeine in the now commercially sold coffees is exceedingly high. It's about two or three times higher than the standard lookup tables that you'll see on the internet. So I'm not saying that to demonize caffeine. We can pretty quickly adapt to and form a tolerance to caffeine. Some people never really can get over the jitters. Other people are just fine with even a thousand milligrams of caffeine, but only because they've been drinking a lot of caffeine consistently. Anyway, it's also wildly inconsistent from location to location, the brew type, the functionality. So yeah, that stuff can be very hard to figure out what's happening. There's only one way really to objectively measure caffeine, and that's used caffeine tablets. And they work pretty well. Actually someone I know whose prominent in the podcast space uses 100 to 200 milligrams of caffeine in tablet form combined with tea. So they've now conditioned themselves to think that herbal tea it's also wildly inconsistent from location to location, the brew type, the functionality. So yeah, that stuff can be very hard to figure out what's happening. There's only one way really to objectively measure caffeine, and that's used caffeine tablets. And they work pretty well. Actually someone I know whose prominent in the podcast space uses 100 to 200 milligrams of caffeine in tablet form combined with tea. So they've now conditioned themselves to think that herbal tea actually has this caffeinating effect. But tablet form caffeine, while I'm not recommending it to outright, it is going to give you the best sense of how much caffeine you can tolerate and how much is performance enhancing or is performance degrading. There's actually another line of supplementation that we can go down here, which is not technically as stimulant, but it's something I use to help performance when you don't want caffeine. And so this thinks specifically if you're one of those actually has this caffeinating effect. But tablet form caffeine, while I'm not recommending it to outright, it is going to give you the best sense of how much caffeine you can tolerate and how much is performance enhancing or is performance degrading. There's actually another line of supplementation that we can go down here, which is not technically as stimulant, but it's something I use to help performance when you don't want caffeine. And so this thinks specifically if you're one of those folks who have to exercise at night, and you want a little bit of boost for your training, but you don't want to have caffeine because it messes up your sleep. And this is when you can turn to the whole like citrally and arginine nitric oxide sort of route and we'll skip the explanation there. But effectively what happens is that your oxide is this wonderful compound that causes vasodilation. And of course, that's going to aid then in transporting nutrients in and out of folks who have to exercise at night, and you want a little bit of boost for your training, but you don't want to have caffeine because it messes up your sleep. And this is when you can turn to the whole like citrally and arginine nitric oxide sort of route and we'll skip the explanation there. But effectively what happens is that your oxide is this wonderful compound that causes vasodilation. And of course, that's going to aid then in transporting nutrients in and out of the cell. So it has an erogetic effect. You have a number of ways you can go about this. Some of them have more pros and cons than others and there are more and more data coming out specifically on citrally and more recently. If you look though in my opinion, the most consistent evidence for the most consistent effect is in the supplement of beetroot or beetroot juice or extractor something like that. So you can find those supplements and they tend to again, the cell. So it has an erogetic effect. You have a number of ways you can go about this. Some of them have more pros and cons than others and there are more and more data coming out specifically on citrally and more recently. If you look though in my opinion, the most consistent evidence for the most consistent effect is in the supplement of beetroot or beetroot juice or extractor something like that. So you can find those supplements and they tend to again, the pretty effective and enhancing performance specifically, anything moderate to longer duration endurance performance and they are not as stimulant so they won't ruin your sleep that much. One note of caution for those of you that are interested in citrally or beetroot because they are in the arginine pathway. If you're somebody who has a predisposition to cold source, oral cold source that is or other forms of cold source that because activation of the arginine the pretty effective and enhancing performance specifically, anything moderate to longer duration endurance performance and they are not as stimulant so they won't ruin your sleep that much. One note of caution for those of you that are interested in citrally or beetroot because they are in the arginine pathway. If you're somebody who has a predisposition to cold source, oral cold source that is or other forms of cold source that because activation of the arginine pathway can exacerbate some of the neural related aspects of cold source and that's because the viruses that cause those cold source actually live on neurons, then you want to be very cautious with citrally and especially hydro citrally. I can really amplify that the cold source response. What about non-stimulant yet focus enhancing supplements, things like alpha GPC, pathway can exacerbate some of the neural related aspects of cold source and that's because the viruses that cause those cold source actually live on neurons, then you want to be very cautious with citrally and especially hydro citrally. I can really amplify that the cold source response. What about non-stimulant yet focus enhancing supplements, things like alpha GPC, for example, I routinely use 300 to 600 milligrams of alpha GPC prior to hard physical training, typically weight training but occasionally I'll take 300 milligrams of alpha GPC prior to a mental work-about. Less often these days because I reserve it for physical training and I don't tend to use it every day, maybe once every third or fourth workout combined with caffeine. for example, I routinely use 300 to 600 milligrams of alpha GPC prior to hard physical training, typically weight training but occasionally I'll take 300 milligrams of alpha GPC prior to a mental work-about. Less often these days because I reserve it for physical training and I don't tend to use it every day, maybe once every third or fourth workout combined with caffeine. That combination is pretty potent. I find it so technically because it's a colonurgic agonist, it's not a stimulant in the traditional sense but it has a focusing and an alertness promoting aspect to it. What are your thoughts on those sorts of compounds? There's not much human performance data on those. There are certainly cognitive functioning tests on those. You're not going to find a lot of information, though there isn't none. That combination is pretty potent. I find it so technically because it's a colonurgic agonist, it's not a stimulant in the traditional sense but it has a focusing and an alertness promoting aspect to it. What are your thoughts on those sorts of compounds? There's not much human performance data on those. There are certainly cognitive functioning tests on those. You're not going to find a lot of information, though there isn't none. We actually will use many of these substances. You could globally call them neutropics, any substance that specifically only has brain function is a rough way to think about it. We'll use them prior to more challenging bouts of training. This is something that we'll pull out say on the sparring day only or the most important training session or a session when you're trying to work on pitch command or when you're trying to enhance work on your shot. That is a basketball We actually will use many of these substances. You could globally call them neutropics, any substance that specifically only has brain function is a rough way to think about it. We'll use them prior to more challenging bouts of training. This is something that we'll pull out say on the sparring day only or the most important training session or a session when you're trying to work on pitch command or when you're trying to enhance work on your shot. That is a basketball player or you're really trying to improve a certain swing as a golfer or something like that. But we do not use them every day. We do not use them every person. We will use those. They are not stimulants but they can be performance enhancing. Another kind of way to think about this is if you're in the case of caloric restriction, whether you're trying to lose weight or we're actually trying to control weight for weight purposes in terms of sports where you have to be in a certain player or you're really trying to improve a certain swing as a golfer or something like that. But we do not use them every day. We do not use them every person. We will use those. They are not stimulants but they can be performance enhancing. Another kind of way to think about this is if you're in the case of caloric restriction, whether you're trying to lose weight or we're actually trying to control weight for weight purposes in terms of sports where you have to be in a certain weight class or something like that. What we may not be able to give you food, in fact, we may not be able to give you stimulants because of the sleep thing or because we're already maxed on us at the stimulants. Now we can go this route. At least mentally, you're a little bit there and you're more likely to be alert and focused and you can train harder despite the fact that we didn't actually change fuel. That's a little bit of a short game in terms of that's not your permanent solution. You eventually need to bring calories up or whatever other trains you're training or whatever weight class or something like that. What we may not be able to give you food, in fact, we may not be able to give you stimulants because of the sleep thing or because we're already maxed on us at the stimulants. Now we can go this route. At least mentally, you're a little bit there and you're more likely to be alert and focused and you can train harder despite the fact that we didn't actually change fuel. That's a little bit of a short game in terms of that's not your permanent solution. You eventually need to bring calories up or whatever other trains you're training or whatever you're going to do, but it can work in a nice short pinch. I'm very interested to learn from you about fatigue reducers and I'm hoping that rodeo La Rozaea will come up in the conversation. Yeah, great. Let's just start right there then. There's actually a lot of research on this, despite most people not having heard of it. I think I mentioned in a previous episode, I've used it a lot over many, many years. You have to be a little bit careful of it. There's, you're going to do, but it can work in a nice short pinch. I'm very interested to learn from you about fatigue reducers and I'm hoping that rodeo La Rozaea will come up in the conversation. Yeah, great. Let's just start right there then. There's actually a lot of research on this, despite most people not having heard of it. I think I mentioned in a previous episode, I've used it a lot over many, many years. You have to be a little bit careful of it. There's, well, first of all, no, when we should have said this at the onset, no supplement is the panacea, right? Nothing's going to work for everybody. I mean, rodeo La Rozaea is no different. It can have a number of effects. If you look across the literature, you're going to find generally somewhere between a small benefit to little benefit, but not often is it detrimental with a few exceptions. I know of a handful of papers that would be too, specifically, where it may actually well, first of all, no, when we should have said this at the onset, no supplement is the panacea, right? Nothing's going to work for everybody. I mean, rodeo La Rozaea is no different. It can have a number of effects. If you look across the literature, you're going to find generally somewhere between a small benefit to little benefit, but not often is it detrimental with a few exceptions. I know of a handful of papers that would be too, specifically, where it may actually reduce muscular endurance. Okay. Fine. If you think about what's happening is one of the benefits that has been seen so far with rodeo La Rozaeaa is helpful at managing cortisol, but cortisol suppression is not necessarily a good thing. We talked about how if you do an acute about a stress, cortisol will go away up, and that is a sign of acute stress. However, a sign of long-term excessive stress is cortisol suppression. And so this is a thing to be reduce muscular endurance. Okay. Fine. If you think about what's happening is one of the benefits that has been seen so far with rodeo La Rozaeaa is helpful at managing cortisol, but cortisol suppression is not necessarily a good thing. We talked about how if you do an acute about a stress, cortisol will go away up, and that is a sign of acute stress. However, a sign of long-term excessive stress is cortisol suppression. And so this is a thing to be really careful of is if you're feeling down or lethargic or tired and you think your adrenals are messed up and then you start taking cortisol modulators, you could be making the problem worse. Because now your cortisol is actually suppressed. And now you're taking these things to blunt it or keep it low and you continue to feel lethargic and lack of desire and libido and focus in this sort of all these things. So cortisol is not a bad thing. We want this to be going up and down really careful of is if you're feeling down or lethargic or tired and you think your adrenals are messed up and then you start taking cortisol modulators, you could be making the problem worse. Because now your cortisol is actually suppressed. And now you're taking these things to blunt it or keep it low and you continue to feel lethargic and lack of desire and libido and focus in this sort of all these things. So cortisol is not a bad thing. We want this to be going up and down in the amounts that we want. So if we're thinking about like for example waking up, you would want generally something like a 50% reduction in the first hour in terms of cortisol concentrations. However, if you're extremely suppressed already, going down is only going to be a problem. So Rodeola is has a good evidence base to support it for that. You'll see actually a number of studies that have looked at it in a whole host of areas for benefit. So something in the amounts that we want. So if we're thinking about like for example waking up, you would want generally something like a 50% reduction in the first hour in terms of cortisol concentrations. However, if you're extremely suppressed already, going down is only going to be a problem. So Rodeola is has a good evidence base to support it for that. You'll see actually a number of studies that have looked at it in a whole host of areas for benefit. So something good to do. The difficult part with Rodeola to be quite honest is getting it from my high quality brand and source. It's difficult to get as a single source, which is a very, very important thing to do with supplements is try to get them sourced alone. Rodeola typically comes in combination with any other herbals or other stuff, adrenal support and etc., etc. Also then getting them then third party certified, which for most folks is not necessary, good to do. The difficult part with Rodeola to be quite honest is getting it from my high quality brand and source. It's difficult to get as a single source, which is a very, very important thing to do with supplements is try to get them sourced alone. Rodeola typically comes in combination with any other herbals or other stuff, adrenal support and etc., etc. Also then getting them then third party certified, which for most folks is not necessary, but for any athletes that need to go through drug testing systems, you should not take any supplement at all. That does not have some sort of third party certification. Those are the challenges that being said, if you've ever ran into somebody who's taken Rodeola and they're like, I didn't do anything for me. It's possible. That's nothing works for everyone. It also could be just very poor quality sourcing. If you look at the, there have been a number of papers on its perception of fatigue but for any athletes that need to go through drug testing systems, you should not take any supplement at all. That does not have some sort of third party certification. Those are the challenges that being said, if you've ever ran into somebody who's taken Rodeola and they're like, I didn't do anything for me. It's possible. That's nothing works for everyone. It also could be just very poor quality sourcing. If you look at the, there have been a number of papers on its perception of fatigue and you've sort of mentioned that you felt pretty immediate effects of taking it a few times. Yeah, I'm fairly sensitive as supplements, but I've started taking Rodeola before workouts and found that I could push much harder, much longer through the workout. Normally, I would, or typically before taking it, that is in sessions where I did not take it, I would be able to work out very hard for 20 minutes or so. The next 10 minutes, I could get some and you've sort of mentioned that you felt pretty immediate effects of taking it a few times. Yeah, I'm fairly sensitive as supplements, but I've started taking Rodeola before workouts and found that I could push much harder, much longer through the workout. Normally, I would, or typically before taking it, that is in sessions where I did not take it, I would be able to work out very hard for 20 minutes or so. The next 10 minutes, I could get some work output and then the remaining period of time, it was kind of a tapering off. Now, granted, these are very intense training sessions. These are not the endurance training sessions. These are the weight training sessions at one time per week per body part type sessions. What I've noticed is I can complete the entire 60 minutes with minimal fatigue now. I mean, obviously, I hit fatigue within sets and of course, you remain human despite taking it. But I found to be very useful work output and then the remaining period of time, it was kind of a tapering off. Now, granted, these are very intense training sessions. These are not the endurance training sessions. These are the weight training sessions at one time per week per body part type sessions. What I've noticed is I can complete the entire 60 minutes with minimal fatigue now. I mean, obviously, I hit fatigue within sets and of course, you remain human despite taking it. But I found to be very useful and I've been using it whenever I use AlphaGPC prior to workouts. I've been impressed by by it overall. I do want to highlight something that you said because I think it's so, so vitally important, which is that using single ingredient formulations for most things is critical to figuring out what works for you, what doesn't, what dosages you need, being able to take things to on one off, two days on one day off, for instance, being able to increase dosage in the and I've been using it whenever I use AlphaGPC prior to workouts. I've been impressed by by it overall. I do want to highlight something that you said because I think it's so, so vitally important, which is that using single ingredient formulations for most things is critical to figuring out what works for you, what doesn't, what dosages you need, being able to take things to on one off, two days on one day off, for instance, being able to increase dosage in the morning and then maybe reduce the dosage and combine with something else in the afternoon. Single ingredient formulations are pretty much the only way to do that. There's perhaps only one supplement that I take at all and that's athletic greens as there have been a regular podcast sponsor for a long time that is a cocktail of many, many things and those are all adaptogens as well as some probiotics and vitamins and things like that. So I'm not opposed to blends where the blends include a lot of nutrients that are synergistic, but for all pill, capsule, morning and then maybe reduce the dosage and combine with something else in the afternoon. Single ingredient formulations are pretty much the only way to do that. There's perhaps only one supplement that I take at all and that's athletic greens as there have been a regular podcast sponsor for a long time that is a cocktail of many, many things and those are all adaptogens as well as some probiotics and vitamins and things like that. So I'm not opposed to blends where the blends include a lot of nutrients that are synergistic, but for all pill, capsule, based supplements where I'm looking for a very targeted effect and it's not just about some foundational nutrition. I really believe strongly that single ingredient formulations are the way that you can build a rational approach to supplementation and also make adjustments if something isn't making you feel better and also make adjustments if something's really working for you. So for instance, some people might take an alpha GPC 300 milligrams and not feel anything, go up to 600 milligrams, not feel anything, maybe just feel kind of they don't like it. Other people, based supplements where I'm looking for a very targeted effect and it's not just about some foundational nutrition. I really believe strongly that single ingredient formulations are the way that you can build a rational approach to supplementation and also make adjustments if something isn't making you feel better and also make adjustments if something's really working for you. So for instance, some people might take an alpha GPC 300 milligrams and not feel anything, go up to 600 milligrams, not feel anything, maybe just feel kind of they don't like it. Other people, like myself, took 300 milligrams of alpha GPC the first time. I was like, wow, this really puts me in the zone. But I want to be really careful how often I use it. I did mention I go up to 600 milligrams occasionally, but that really puts me on the outer threshold of kind of overall levels of focus and amped up such that if I drink too much caffeine, it can tilt me over the edge. So I encourage people to become scientists of themselves and the only way to do that is to try and limit the number like myself, took 300 milligrams of alpha GPC the first time. I was like, wow, this really puts me in the zone. But I want to be really careful how often I use it. I did mention I go up to 600 milligrams occasionally, but that really puts me on the outer threshold of kind of overall levels of focus and amped up such that if I drink too much caffeine, it can tilt me over the edge. So I encourage people to become scientists of themselves and the only way to do that is to try and limit the number of variables. And the final point is that I think that single ingredient formulations are by far the best in terms of changing things over time. You know, this could be women during their menstrual cycle might find that during certain phases of the cycle, they're more sensitive to certain things than not others. And for men and women, it may be that certain times of year or even and certain supplements might go better closer to sleep some earlier in the day and on and on and on. There's of variables. And the final point is that I think that single ingredient formulations are by far the best in terms of changing things over time. You know, this could be women during their menstrual cycle might find that during certain phases of the cycle, they're more sensitive to certain things than not others. And for men and women, it may be that certain times of year or even and certain supplements might go better closer to sleep some earlier in the day and on and on and on. There's no real way, in my opinion, to have a supplementation protocol that involves lots and lots of blends. One or two blends, okay, but lots of blends, I think that's actually, I think that's potentially dangerous territory. Yeah, I mean, just take Rodeola as a good example. I know a new meta-analyses came out just in the last few months looking at it. And they found in general, you see again, a slight to moderate improvement and everything from power output to fatigue resistant antioxidant no real way, in my opinion, to have a supplementation protocol that involves lots and lots of blends. One or two blends, okay, but lots of blends, I think that's actually, I think that's potentially dangerous territory. Yeah, I mean, just take Rodeola as a good example. I know a new meta-analyses came out just in the last few months looking at it. And they found in general, you see again, a slight to moderate improvement and everything from power output to fatigue resistant antioxidant effects to endurance performance. So it's like, okay, great. Maybe there's a little bit here. Now, let's say you went to do it in the only way you could access Rodeola is in combination with that and some lines main and some other of these adapted things. And it's like, well, wait a minute. I just wanted to take this to get a better workout. But now it also came with this stimulant or this cortisol suppressor or cortisol activator. Well, now also you can't take it at night or you effects to endurance performance. So it's like, okay, great. Maybe there's a little bit here. Now, let's say you went to do it in the only way you could access Rodeola is in combination with that and some lines main and some other of these adapted things. And it's like, well, wait a minute. I just wanted to take this to get a better workout. But now it also came with this stimulant or this cortisol suppressor or cortisol activator. Well, now also you can't take it at night or you can't take it in the morning because you're already head coughed here. Your options are just way limited. So I think the biggest part of all that is you, if something doesn't feel good, you have absolutely no idea. You don't know if it was Rodeola. You don't know if it was the bus well or anything that's in there. You don't know if it was any of the other things that were smashed in there or it could be something as simple as the the citric acid they use, like some other combination of thinking now here you are thinking that some supplement that actually works for you can't take it in the morning because you're already head coughed here. Your options are just way limited. So I think the biggest part of all that is you, if something doesn't feel good, you have absolutely no idea. You don't know if it was Rodeola. You don't know if it was the bus well or anything that's in there. You don't know if it was any of the other things that were smashed in there or it could be something as simple as the the citric acid they use, like some other combination of thinking now here you are thinking that some supplement that actually works for you doesn't and you throw that out of your repertoire for the rest of your life which is not the biggest crime but it's not needed and you're not really going to know. So yeah, I fully stamped. You can look back at my course lectures for the last decade and you will see like stamps number one on the supplementless sections is make sure you're taking single ingredient supplements at all costs. The last part about that too is you're more likely to ensure the amount that is doesn't and you throw that out of your repertoire for the rest of your life which is not the biggest crime but it's not needed and you're not really going to know. So yeah, I fully stamped. You can look back at my course lectures for the last decade and you will see like stamps number one on the supplementless sections is make sure you're taking single ingredient supplements at all costs. The last part about that too is you're more likely to ensure the amount that is on the label is correct. So if you're taking Rhodiola and it says you know there's 100 milligrams in there and if that's only thing that's in there you're more likely than not to actually get something close. Now they're never perfect but it would be close. If it's in a combination of 20 other things you actually don't have any idea if that's in there. In fact there have been many papers on melatonin and vitamin D and a number of other supplements in which when you actually on the label is correct. So if you're taking Rhodiola and it says you know there's 100 milligrams in there and if that's only thing that's in there you're more likely than not to actually get something close. Now they're never perfect but it would be close. If it's in a combination of 20 other things you actually don't have any idea if that's in there. In fact there have been many papers on melatonin and vitamin D and a number of other supplements in which when you actually pull them off the shelf these are standard studies where they would go and buy a set like 20 to 25 different supplements in the case of melatonin. They will actually measure the amount of melatonin actually in them and despite the fact that the label says 5 milligrams they can be up to a 500 to a thousand fold actual concentration in that supplement and then you wonder why some people react great melatonin. Some people that absolutely destroys you and this is also why we'll see pull them off the shelf these are standard studies where they would go and buy a set like 20 to 25 different supplements in the case of melatonin. They will actually measure the amount of melatonin actually in them and despite the fact that the label says 5 milligrams they can be up to a 500 to a thousand fold actual concentration in that supplement and then you wonder why some people react great melatonin. Some people that absolutely destroys you and this is also why we'll see this constantly what people will have like 500 times the upper limit of melatonin the morning after when the half-life is supposed to be more like 90 minutes it should be totally gone but we're seeing extremely high and not even talking like double I'm talking 10 20 30 x the upper limit range for melatonin the next morning and then it's like well what are you taking it's like oh I got this melatonin at x store or x website you know like holy cow so I'm not opposed to melatonin this constantly what people will have like 500 times the upper limit of melatonin the morning after when the half-life is supposed to be more like 90 minutes it should be totally gone but we're seeing extremely high and not even talking like double I'm talking 10 20 30 x the upper limit range for melatonin the next morning and then it's like well what are you taking it's like oh I got this melatonin at x store or x website you know like holy cow so I'm not opposed to melatonin theoretically but you have to be careful with that one in particular so any supplement has that to be true so you want to buy them from as many places that you can that are high quality and if they are third party tested even if you're not a performance athlete I want to stress this even if you're not a performance athlete third party certified in test of supplements are you're less likely to just just get wildly high concentrations or low concentrations of active ingredients so theoretically but you have to be careful with that one in particular so any supplement has that to be true so you want to buy them from as many places that you can that are high quality and if they are third party tested even if you're not a performance athlete I want to stress this even if you're not a performance athlete third party certified in test of supplements are you're less likely to just just get wildly high concentrations or low concentrations of active ingredients so relative to other ones who you might get for cheaper but you could be totally wrecking yourself by getting you know 50 milligrams of melatonin every night and not realizing it so then of course the next morning you drown yourself in caffeine and then you can see what death cycle you're in now yeah and people could look for third party certification on the packaging and some websites will allow you to zoom in on the bottle beforehand it's largely listed on on certain vendor websites relative to other ones who you might get for cheaper but you could be totally wrecking yourself by getting you know 50 milligrams of melatonin every night and not realizing it so then of course the next morning you drown yourself in caffeine and then you can see what death cycle you're in now yeah and people could look for third party certification on the packaging and some websites will allow you to zoom in on the bottle beforehand it's largely listed on on certain vendor websites a brief point about supplement cost and blends and a promises will be a brief point different ingredients meaning different types of supplements have widely varying costs in order to you know create the to get them to manufacture them so often done what you'll find is that blends will include the least amount of the most expensive ingredient right not always the case a brief point about supplement cost and blends and a promises will be a brief point different ingredients meaning different types of supplements have widely varying costs in order to you know create the to get them to manufacture them so often done what you'll find is that blends will include the least amount of the most expensive ingredient right not always the case there's some there certain exceptions to this and I mentioned some blends that I like a few minutes ago that are for foundational nutrition adaptogens and probiotics athletic greens of course just being one of several examples out there but when it comes to say a sleep blend or a pre workout blend there are some decent products out there but a lot of them tend to put in more of the least expensive ingredients and less of the ones that you're actively seeking and so those tend to be there's some there certain exceptions to this and I mentioned some blends that I like a few minutes ago that are for foundational nutrition adaptogens and probiotics athletic greens of course just being one of several examples out there but when it comes to say a sleep blend or a pre workout blend there are some decent products out there but a lot of them tend to put in more of the least expensive ingredients and less of the ones that you're actively seeking and so those tend to be caffeine tends to be a kind of a buffer against the other things meaning if you pre workout that putting caffeine in there isn't necessarily a bad thing but if it has five other things in there oftentimes what manufacturers will cheat on is the actual amount of the things that are costly yeah so again single ingredient formulations for 80% of your supplements I think is really the way to go and the other thing that I know is going to come up as we're talking about all these caffeine tends to be a kind of a buffer against the other things meaning if you pre workout that putting caffeine in there isn't necessarily a bad thing but if it has five other things in there oftentimes what manufacturers will cheat on is the actual amount of the things that are costly yeah so again single ingredient formulations for 80% of your supplements I think is really the way to go and the other thing that I know is going to come up as we're talking about all these supplements this is the issue of dependency I often get this question and when I solicit for questions on social media in anticipation of this episode number of people said okay so if you take a sleep formulation do I need to take it every night if I don't take it will I have an incredibly hard time sleeping if I take a pre workout every time I train will I need it it's a great question some people will take supplement holidays as they may be called for a couple of days each supplements this is the issue of dependency I often get this question and when I solicit for questions on social media in anticipation of this episode number of people said okay so if you take a sleep formulation do I need to take it every night if I don't take it will I have an incredibly hard time sleeping if I take a pre workout every time I train will I need it it's a great question some people will take supplement holidays as they may be called for a couple of days each week back to back some people take them straight through I myself take a sleep cocktail we've described this it's magnesium, theanine and things this is not one ingredient these are multiple ingredients in fact precisely because some people who have sleep walking and vivid dream issues can't take theanine before bed in any case I've had times when I either forgot my supplements that's rare where I just didn't have what I needed or just simply took a break for a night and week back to back some people take them straight through I myself take a sleep cocktail we've described this it's magnesium, theanine and things this is not one ingredient these are multiple ingredients in fact precisely because some people who have sleep walking and vivid dream issues can't take theanine before bed in any case I've had times when I either forgot my supplements that's rare where I just didn't have what I needed or just simply took a break for a night and was not a problem but in terms of pre-workout I do think that people become dependent on being in that really ramped up state but I don't think we view all this as true dependency and like addiction totally right I mean I define addiction as a progressive narrowing of the things that bring you pleasure so you know I suppose people could get addicted to pre-workout but it seems a little unlikely more likely there would be a dependency such that if you didn't have your pre-workout was not a problem but in terms of pre-workout I do think that people become dependent on being in that really ramped up state but I don't think we view all this as true dependency and like addiction totally right I mean I define addiction as a progressive narrowing of the things that bring you pleasure so you know I suppose people could get addicted to pre-workout but it seems a little unlikely more likely there would be a dependency such that if you didn't have your pre-workout you might feel like you're not motivated to train so what are your thoughts on taking little holidays from supplements and varying frequency of supplement intake in particular as it relates to stimulants and fatigue reducers. The end goal anytime I coach somebody is to get them into a physiological state in which they require no or close to no supplementation that's the target you might feel like you're not motivated to train so what are your thoughts on taking little holidays from supplements and varying frequency of supplement intake in particular as it relates to stimulants and fatigue reducers. The end goal anytime I coach somebody is to get them into a physiological state in which they require no or close to no supplementation that's the target we should really be in a position to where our lifestyle, our sunlight exposure, our stress management, our physical activity, our sleep and our hydration and our whole food nutrition provide us almost everything we need. Now look again there are some foundational items that we can give people we put together a little bundle actually for this the basic things that you can go look at but that's the goal right so the target is to be let your physiology run the guide your physiology we should really be in a position to where our lifestyle, our sunlight exposure, our stress management, our physical activity, our sleep and our hydration and our whole food nutrition provide us almost everything we need. Now look again there are some foundational items that we can give people we put together a little bundle actually for this the basic things that you can go look at but that's the goal right so the target is to be let your physiology run the guide your physiology is way smarter than we are even if I take a bunch of biomarkers from you your physiology still knows better than those few markers can tell me so that's always where we're ending up I actually personally don't like people being in a position that they have to take a supplement for anything so I don't like it if you have to take a supplement to have a good night of sleep I don't like it if you have to have a supplement to train we will use any of these stimulants very very carefully is way smarter than we are even if I take a bunch of biomarkers from you your physiology still knows better than those few markers can tell me so that's always where we're ending up I actually personally don't like people being in a position that they have to take a supplement for anything so I don't like it if you have to take a supplement to have a good night of sleep I don't like it if you have to have a supplement to train we will use any of these stimulants very very carefully with any of the athletes we work with and certainly for the non-athletes because at least the athletes we have an end date we have a fight schedule we have a season we have a game you're going to pitch whatever when you don't have that it's sort of like you end this endless cycle of oh you're just going to do that all day every day we don't really need to be in that spot so what I the way that I described my philosophy is I will use those short term tactics to symptom manage if I have to with any of the athletes we work with and certainly for the non-athletes because at least the athletes we have an end date we have a fight schedule we have a season we have a game you're going to pitch whatever when you don't have that it's sort of like you end this endless cycle of oh you're just going to do that all day every day we don't really need to be in that spot so what I the way that I described my philosophy is I will use those short term tactics to symptom manage if I have to so if somebody comes to me and like you're feeling awful and we've got to get through the hump okay great maybe we'll give you something for sleep immediately to get you sleeping that allows us to then come back and work on the causal problem right so this is what is why are you having a hard time sleeping anyways if you have to take a nine cocktail supplement to sleep then all we're doing is is blinding the reason why are you in that position to begin with right so we see this all the time whether it is sleep problems whether it is cortisol or testosterone the question is so if somebody comes to me and like you're feeling awful and we've got to get through the hump okay great maybe we'll give you something for sleep immediately to get you sleeping that allows us to then come back and work on the causal problem right so this is what is why are you having a hard time sleeping anyways if you have to take a nine cocktail supplement to sleep then all we're doing is is blinding the reason why are you in that position to begin with right so we see this all the time whether it is sleep problems whether it is cortisol or testosterone the question is why is that low now we may give you something again to manage it immediately but the task the mystery I'm going to try to unveil is why why is it there to begin with this could be something like this is natural for you and your lack of energy is something else or it could be actually it is not a natural level for you but something is suppressing it any number of you've got some infection going on there's some allergic reaction to something in your environment there's a why is that low now we may give you something again to manage it immediately but the task the mystery I'm going to try to unveil is why why is it there to begin with this could be something like this is natural for you and your lack of energy is something else or it could be actually it is not a natural level for you but something is suppressing it any number of you've got some infection going on there's some allergic reaction to something in your environment there's a mold mercury like that one comes up a lot you'll see mercury in folks and that's causing a lot of problems or any number of heavy metals or toxins any host of things psychological distress bad daily habit you don't ever see the sun like you don't ever sweat you don't ever drink we was talking about so many things so I'm always going to hunt for that and I hate using this phrase it's highly maligned for a good reason but root cause all right so we're trying to find that is mold mercury like that one comes up a lot you'll see mercury in folks and that's causing a lot of problems or any number of heavy metals or toxins any host of things psychological distress bad daily habit you don't ever see the sun like you don't ever sweat you don't ever drink we was talking about so many things so I'm always going to hunt for that and I hate using this phrase it's highly maligned for a good reason but root cause all right so we're trying to find that is like are we making sure that we're not causing this problem and I'm not going to want to give you a supplement to cover up something if we're not even trying to solve the problem of what's being there that being said am I that concerned about people taking a multivitamin just all throughout no not really am I concerned about people taking creatine no like go ahead those those ones are generally pretty fine to just take but anything else I want a reason I really don't like giving like are we making sure that we're not causing this problem and I'm not going to want to give you a supplement to cover up something if we're not even trying to solve the problem of what's being there that being said am I that concerned about people taking a multivitamin just all throughout no not really am I concerned about people taking creatine no like go ahead those those ones are generally pretty fine to just take but anything else I want a reason I really don't like giving people anything in a super physiological concentration or a super food concentration right so again an amount you wouldn't find in a normal food dosage unless we have really a specific reason some of these things are more problematic others are less problematic so when an ant to answer the question of dependency you have a combination of actual physiological dependency caffeine like that actually creates a physiological dependency versus a emotional or psychological dependency or just people anything in a super physiological concentration or a super food concentration right so again an amount you wouldn't find in a normal food dosage unless we have really a specific reason some of these things are more problematic others are less problematic so when an ant to answer the question of dependency you have a combination of actual physiological dependency caffeine like that actually creates a physiological dependency versus a emotional or psychological dependency or just I like drinking this like that's my habit that's my routine there's a fancy scientific phrase for that but it doesn't matter so yeah we want to get off that and like again my personal philosophy is I don't want you to depend on anything I want to create extremely resilient people and I want to create physiological resilience we actually have a fancy little algorithm we used to to measure that in people and so we can actually calculate that number and the goal of us is to push that number higher so that we don't have to have anything so many situations pop up in your real life that you're I like drinking this like that's my habit that's my routine there's a fancy scientific phrase for that but it doesn't matter so yeah we want to get off that and like again my personal philosophy is I don't want you to depend on anything I want to create extremely resilient people and I want to create physiological resilience we actually have a fancy little algorithm we used to to measure that in people and so we can actually calculate that number and the goal of us is to push that number higher so that we don't have to have anything so many situations pop up in your real life that you're not going to have your supplement or you're not going to have your routine or you're not going to have your journal or whatever but also for the long term I don't want to create a situation in which this is a short term success that you have to now do that the rest of your life now let's just get out of the way let's fix the problem if we if there is something symptom management that's real while we're actually searching for better foundational habits the last thing I want to say about this not going to have your supplement or you're not going to have your routine or you're not going to have your journal or whatever but also for the long term I don't want to create a situation in which this is a short term success that you have to now do that the rest of your life now let's just get out of the way let's fix the problem if we if there is something symptom management that's real while we're actually searching for better foundational habits the last thing I want to say about this is if you're only covering symptom you're really missing signal right which is if you're constantly tired throughout the day and all you're doing is giving yourself a number of alpha GPCs and caffeine etc even though there's good literature okay are you really just using that to allow your poor sleep hygiene to happen if they took those away I bet you you would actually start addressing your sleep if that's the cause right all right your stress or your poor hydration like you would go is if you're only covering symptom you're really missing signal right which is if you're constantly tired throughout the day and all you're doing is giving yourself a number of alpha GPCs and caffeine etc even though there's good literature okay are you really just using that to allow your poor sleep hygiene to happen if they took those away I bet you you would actually start addressing your sleep if that's the cause right all right your stress or your poor hydration like you would go hunting for the problem and so like you want to walk a fine line here going like hey look is an athletic greens supplement that big a deal no probably not but wait a minute am I actually now covering up the pain point that is maybe needed it's a signal to actually get my ass in gear to go make one of these changes whatever it needs to be so I know I've got like a little bit meta on you and a little bit philosophical but that's honestly how I approach it yeah I think it's hunting for the problem and so like you want to walk a fine line here going like hey look is an athletic greens supplement that big a deal no probably not but wait a minute am I actually now covering up the pain point that is maybe needed it's a signal to actually get my ass in gear to go make one of these changes whatever it needs to be so I know I've got like a little bit meta on you and a little bit philosophical but that's honestly how I approach it yeah I think it's really important a friend of mine who's a physician has a great saying which is better living through chemistry still requires better living oh that's cool that's so good you know and it pertains also to things like antidepressants and ADHD drugs and things of that sort most all of those things were developed as tools to allow people to move from a maladaptive state okay maladaptive is hard to define but think about in any domain of life you can either be back on your heels flat really important a friend of mine who's a physician has a great saying which is better living through chemistry still requires better living oh that's cool that's so good you know and it pertains also to things like antidepressants and ADHD drugs and things of that sort most all of those things were developed as tools to allow people to move from a maladaptive state okay maladaptive is hard to define but think about in any domain of life you can either be back on your heels flat footed or forward center of mass and there are times when people are so compromised neurochemically that they need to use pharmacology in order to get into a flat footed position you know they're really back on their heels flat footed or forward center of mass but the idea was always that those things were developed as things to allow people to engage in the sorts of behaviors that can produce the same sorts of neurochemical shifts and if people are thinking well what sorts of behaviors can induce these neurochemical shifts I'll just zoom out myself for a moment here and say footed or forward center of mass and there are times when people are so compromised neurochemically that they need to use pharmacology in order to get into a flat footed position you know they're really back on their heels flat footed or forward center of mass but the idea was always that those things were developed as things to allow people to engage in the sorts of behaviors that can produce the same sorts of neurochemical shifts and if people are thinking well what sorts of behaviors can induce these neurochemical shifts I'll just zoom out myself for a moment here and say I am a big proponent I believe you are as well if I'm a in doing behavioral tools first whenever possible really establishing good habits the do's end don'ts which we've talked a lot about in this series and in this episode then excellent nutrition which involves do's and don'ts volume food choice timing all the factors and then also supplementation and also there sometimes a I am a big proponent I believe you are as well if I'm a in doing behavioral tools first whenever possible really establishing good habits the do's end don'ts which we've talked a lot about in this series and in this episode then excellent nutrition which involves do's and don'ts volume food choice timing all the factors and then also supplementation and also there sometimes a case for prescription drugs certainly and often brain machine interface or body machine interface measuring stuff using devices but the the foundation of behaviors and good nutrition are really truly foundational and it's hard in anything to skip steps but supplements and prescription drugs are one place where people often skip steps and then they don't actually learn how to cultivate the best behavioral practices including the don'ts as you mentioned and then just one more point case for prescription drugs certainly and often brain machine interface or body machine interface measuring stuff using devices but the the foundation of behaviors and good nutrition are really truly foundational and it's hard in anything to skip steps but supplements and prescription drugs are one place where people often skip steps and then they don't actually learn how to cultivate the best behavioral practices including the don'ts as you mentioned and then just one more point along these lines you know you talked about taking anything for energy is really disruptive to the system and it is because especially caffeine while it has its uses and even health benefits it's really borrowing it's against the adenosine system with interest and so because caffeine acts as an adenosine antagonist effectively while caffeine is present in those receptors you don't along these lines you know you talked about taking anything for energy is really disruptive to the system and it is because especially caffeine while it has its uses and even health benefits it's really borrowing it's against the adenosine system with interest and so because caffeine acts as an adenosine antagonist effectively while caffeine is present in those receptors you don't feel asleep you have more energy your reaction time goes down memories and hands focus performance of all kinds yes but then when that caffeine is dislodged from the receptor then the adenosine can act even more potent at those receptors so it's sort of like being able to borrow against the normal variations and wakefulness and sleep and this is why we encourage people if they're not training first thing in the morning to push their caffeine intake out about 90 to 120 minutes after feel asleep you have more energy your reaction time goes down memories and hands focus performance of all kinds yes but then when that caffeine is dislodged from the receptor then the adenosine can act even more potent at those receptors so it's sort of like being able to borrow against the normal variations and wakefulness and sleep and this is why we encourage people if they're not training first thing in the morning to push their caffeine intake out about 90 to 120 minutes after waking so they can clear some of that adenosine in the morning which tends to happen even after we wake up people can listen to episodes on master sleep or perfect sleep or the caffeine episodes to understand more about that but the the final thing I just want to say here then it prompts a question is you know in thinking about supplement protocols I think a lot of people assume that once they start taking something they're going to have to take it all the time waking so they can clear some of that adenosine in the morning which tends to happen even after we wake up people can listen to episodes on master sleep or perfect sleep or the caffeine episodes to understand more about that but the the final thing I just want to say here then it prompts a question is you know in thinking about supplement protocols I think a lot of people assume that once they start taking something they're going to have to take it all the time and one idea perhaps is that people have some alpha gpc around that they could take and it would be great if people could try things without having to buy a whole product I think companies hopefully are listening to this and will give people a sample to see if something works for them and then give them an opportunity to try it to have things around but not necessarily assuming you're going to take it every time right some things you take every day foundational and one idea perhaps is that people have some alpha gpc around that they could take and it would be great if people could try things without having to buy a whole product I think companies hopefully are listening to this and will give people a sample to see if something works for them and then give them an opportunity to try it to have things around but not necessarily assuming you're going to take it every time right some things you take every day foundational nutrition supplements for instance but then also to take a look at how well you're eating or not eating right at times when I'm eating much better I consuming you know low sugar fermented foods which are great for the gut microbiome I consume less probiotics if ever I've been really compromised for whatever reason then I will take pill form probiotics but I don't take those all the time because I get them from food and from certain green you know greens drinks like nutrition supplements for instance but then also to take a look at how well you're eating or not eating right at times when I'm eating much better I consuming you know low sugar fermented foods which are great for the gut microbiome I consume less probiotics if ever I've been really compromised for whatever reason then I will take pill form probiotics but I don't take those all the time because I get them from food and from certain green you know greens drinks like athletic greens and so forth so I think that nutrition and supplementation are tethered in this way in my mind and I don't think that most people think of supplementation is something that where you can induce a lot of variability in when and how you take them but as far as I'm concerned as long as there are single ingredient formulations you can be you can use supplements once a week if you want you can use them seven days a week you could use them twice a day four times a day every day athletic greens and so forth so I think that nutrition and supplementation are tethered in this way in my mind and I don't think that most people think of supplementation is something that where you can induce a lot of variability in when and how you take them but as far as I'm concerned as long as there are single ingredient formulations you can be you can use supplements once a week if you want you can use them seven days a week you could use them twice a day four times a day every day or you could use them not at all agreed yeah some of them will have an effect randomly like that others will not and we talked about creating being one of them it's if you're going to take it once or so a week then there's I mean basically no benefit that's a very good point very creating so um beta alanine is another fantastic example of something you need to take consistently if you want some sort of benefit um it needs to be built up in muscle we need to use or you could use them not at all agreed yeah some of them will have an effect randomly like that others will not and we talked about creating being one of them it's if you're going to take it once or so a week then there's I mean basically no benefit that's a very good point very creating so um beta alanine is another fantastic example of something you need to take consistently if you want some sort of benefit um it needs to be built up in muscle we need to use that to create uh karnasine which is what's actually going to help us with our fatigue management that's why we call it like an acid buffer um so in our previous metabolism episode we talked about that being a major cause of fatigue um the wonderful part of the one of the reasons why beta alanine works so effectively is it blocks that build up so that is an example of another one that you would want to take uh other things like fish oil you could certainly skip a day here and there it wouldn't be that big a deal I also do support your comment if you can take absolutely none of these things that to create uh karnasine which is what's actually going to help us with our fatigue management that's why we call it like an acid buffer um so in our previous metabolism episode we talked about that being a major cause of fatigue um the wonderful part of the one of the reasons why beta alanine works so effectively is it blocks that build up so that is an example of another one that you would want to take uh other things like fish oil you could certainly skip a day here and there it wouldn't be that big a deal I also do support your comment if you can take absolutely none of these things and be just fine um in terms of and we'll come back maybe to beta alanine in a second in terms of some other fun stuff my colleague Greg Asikki ran a really cool number of studies looking at how exercise actually altruistic a microbiome this is actually an area that we I probably have 300 stool samples sitting in my freezer in my lab goodness another reason to pause before entering your lab yeah another reason to not apply to come be one of my graduates and be just fine um in terms of and we'll come back maybe to beta alanine in a second in terms of some other fun stuff my colleague Greg Asikki ran a really cool number of studies looking at how exercise actually altruistic a microbiome this is actually an area that we I probably have 300 stool samples sitting in my freezer in my lab goodness another reason to pause before entering your lab yeah another reason to not apply to come be one of my graduates unless you want to deal with that and we actually have a number we've applied for a couple of grants to look more into this um specifically with females uh so hopefully we can get that funded but nonetheless um you can actually see some like pretty traumatic and I say that word on purpose changes in the gut microbiome there's one in particular study I was thinking of that Greg did is he looked at the the changes pre-posted ultra marathon and even within a single unless you want to deal with that and we actually have a number we've applied for a couple of grants to look more into this um specifically with females uh so hopefully we can get that funded but nonetheless um you can actually see some like pretty traumatic and I say that word on purpose changes in the gut microbiome there's one in particular study I was thinking of that Greg did is he looked at the the changes pre-posted ultra marathon and even within a single battle of exercise um I can't remember the some of the markers but I know one of the markers was specifically increased by like 14,000 percent uh after a single battle of exercise now this is an ultra marathon this is like like totally absurd amount of exercise relative to a normal people would do would be but that number I remember like it was like 14,000 229 percent or like something some random number like that of something meaningful yeah something meaningful like battle of exercise um I can't remember the some of the markers but I know one of the markers was specifically increased by like 14,000 percent uh after a single battle of exercise now this is an ultra marathon this is like like totally absurd amount of exercise relative to a normal people would do would be but that number I remember like it was like 14,000 229 percent or like something some random number like that of something meaningful yeah something meaningful like I can't remember which marker uh that was that it changed um I know streptococcus was in there streptococcus went up like maybe something more like 30 or 40 or 50 percent so the point is we haven't even had the proper time and we don't to even launch into the gut microbiome um supplementation there needs to be ultra specific um you wouldn't be best served to just jump in and take random things there um that's it's a whole area of emerging science we know very very very little about it but I can't remember which marker uh that was that it changed um I know streptococcus was in there streptococcus went up like maybe something more like 30 or 40 or 50 percent so the point is we haven't even had the proper time and we don't to even launch into the gut microbiome um supplementation there needs to be ultra specific um you wouldn't be best served to just jump in and take random things there um that's it's a whole area of emerging science we know very very very little about it but there is a number of actionable things one could do um there so probably something to not mess with would certainly work with a qualified physician if you think you have something going on clinical or you know some actual problem there um don't work with someone who's not a specialist a medical doctor there but um just randomly assigning a bunch of probiotics or prebiotics without intention is maybe the next forefront of human performance research but we'll have to maybe come back in a there is a number of actionable things one could do um there so probably something to not mess with would certainly work with a qualified physician if you think you have something going on clinical or you know some actual problem there um don't work with someone who's not a specialist a medical doctor there but um just randomly assigning a bunch of probiotics or prebiotics without intention is maybe the next forefront of human performance research but we'll have to maybe come back in a few years and dive into that in detail or perhaps you can bring somebody on as an expert in that to discuss that yeah got microbiome is fascinating I think of sleep as the most powerful performance enhancing activity uh of course you still have to do the activity yeah I consider it foundational it basically raises the tide on mental health physical health performance of all kinds um there's few years and dive into that in detail or perhaps you can bring somebody on as an expert in that to discuss that yeah got microbiome is fascinating I think of sleep as the most powerful performance enhancing activity uh of course you still have to do the activity yeah I consider it foundational it basically raises the tide on mental health physical health performance of all kinds um there's recent data that during sleep your body goes through all its various forms of metabolism possible yep which is amazing so it's measured from breath in human subjects breath metabolites in human subjects so obviously uh if one is thinking about supplementation and wondering okay what's what's the best supplement to enhance performance you gave some um great rationale for why creatine would be an excellent choice provided to your eating well and um hydrating well uh and then to my recent data that during sleep your body goes through all its various forms of metabolism possible yep which is amazing so it's measured from breath in human subjects breath metabolites in human subjects so obviously uh if one is thinking about supplementation and wondering okay what's what's the best supplement to enhance performance you gave some um great rationale for why creatine would be an excellent choice provided to your eating well and um hydrating well uh and then to my mind the next thing on the list would be anything that allows you to improve the quality and maybe even the duration of your sleep although if you wake up and you feel rested throughout the day and only need a short nap in the afternoon not everyone needs one but then generally that means you're feeling okay people sometimes get flipped on to this idea that they have insomnia insomnia is excessive daytime sleepiness where you're falling asleep during the day that's insomnia could also mind the next thing on the list would be anything that allows you to improve the quality and maybe even the duration of your sleep although if you wake up and you feel rested throughout the day and only need a short nap in the afternoon not everyone needs one but then generally that means you're feeling okay people sometimes get flipped on to this idea that they have insomnia insomnia is excessive daytime sleepiness where you're falling asleep during the day that's insomnia could also be narcolepsy but that's insomnia but supplementation to improve the quality or duration of sleep or both seems to me like the most direct route even though actually technically it's an indirect route to uh performance enhancement and then thinking about things that increase alertness and stimulants and fatigue reducers do you think that's a good logic yeah we go to absurd lengths to dial sleep be narcolepsy but that's insomnia but supplementation to improve the quality or duration of sleep or both seems to me like the most direct route even though actually technically it's an indirect route to uh performance enhancement and then thinking about things that increase alertness and stimulants and fatigue reducers do you think that's a good logic yeah we go to absurd lengths to dial sleep in as much as we can I mean the honest answer is like truly absurd this is a conflict of interest that my company I'm a part of this absolute rest is anyway that company we actually go out to your house and run a full clinical grade sleep study in you your bedroom on you and run that over multiple nights so instead of having to go to a sleep clinic and have it done in this weird hospital room or sort of setting with these people looking at you through a mirror it's like totally creepy in as much as we can I mean the honest answer is like truly absurd this is a conflict of interest that my company I'm a part of this absolute rest is anyway that company we actually go out to your house and run a full clinical grade sleep study in you your bedroom on you and run that over multiple nights so instead of having to go to a sleep clinic and have it done in this weird hospital room or sort of setting with these people looking at you through a mirror it's like totally creepy that is important because that's the only way to truly determine how you are sleeping now that said the technology of wearable trackers is getting better in fact I would actually predict those things will reach a level of accuracy equivalent to the PSG in the next couple of years and probably we'll get FDA approval so be able to diagnose officially sleep disorders that's my total my prediction from some inside of formation I don't know that to be true but it is getting a lot better right now those wearables are not accurate enough to meet that threshold so the that is important because that's the only way to truly determine how you are sleeping now that said the technology of wearable trackers is getting better in fact I would actually predict those things will reach a level of accuracy equivalent to the PSG in the next couple of years and probably we'll get FDA approval so be able to diagnose officially sleep disorders that's my total my prediction from some inside of formation I don't know that to be true but it is getting a lot better right now those wearables are not accurate enough to meet that threshold so the we do is we bring up basically all the equipment to do that so we'll come in and do that now once we understand exactly how you're sleeping the next question is to answer why are you sleeping that way and so this is a full fourfold system number one is we're going to look at biology which means we're going to take saliva and blood and we're looking at everything from neuro transmitter concentrations to vitamins B6 B12 etc that are important for sleep performance so we're going we do is we bring up basically all the equipment to do that so we'll come in and do that now once we understand exactly how you're sleeping the next question is to answer why are you sleeping that way and so this is a full fourfold system number one is we're going to look at biology which means we're going to take saliva and blood and we're looking at everything from neuro transmitter concentrations to vitamins B6 B12 etc that are important for sleep performance so we're going to see is that is that a physiological problem is there something happened there is cortisol DHA ratio that we've previously talked about or is something like that off if it's not physiology they were going on the next one which is environmental we were in a full environmental scan of your bedroom during those nights of sleep that were there and that's really important because we can look at everything from dander and pollen and allergens that are in the air a quick tip here is wash your to see is that is that a physiological problem is there something happened there is cortisol DHA ratio that we've previously talked about or is something like that off if it's not physiology they were going on the next one which is environmental we were in a full environmental scan of your bedroom during those nights of sleep that were there and that's really important because we can look at everything from dander and pollen and allergens that are in the air a quick tip here is wash your sheets at least once a week one of the common most common places that people get allergens in the air is actually from accumulation on your sheets so if you clean those more often you'll be in a better spot a next one the next one there also is like keep your I'm sorry this hurts my heart I don't even buy I'm in truthfulness I violate this but keep your pets out of your bedroom and certainly keep them off your bed our our ghost face killer is my dog and no keys my other one they don't go on sheets at least once a week one of the common most common places that people get allergens in the air is actually from accumulation on your sheets so if you clean those more often you'll be in a better spot a next one the next one there also is like keep your I'm sorry this hurts my heart I don't even buy I'm in truthfulness I violate this but keep your pets out of your bedroom and certainly keep them off your bed our our ghost face killer is my dog and no keys my other one they don't go on my bed but they're right next to my bed so we violate that one but full environmental scan it includes all those things of course there's we measure light and temperature and humidity and everything else is going on in the room volatile organics that are coming out of the mattress from out the high lead out of the wall like all these things that could potentially disrupt your sleep and we want to make sure that none of those things are kicking on we see this constantly people will my bed but they're right next to my bed so we violate that one but full environmental scan it includes all those things of course there's we measure light and temperature and humidity and everything else is going on in the room volatile organics that are coming out of the mattress from out the high lead out of the wall like all these things that could potentially disrupt your sleep and we want to make sure that none of those things are kicking on we see this constantly people will have things like trying to be cool and they want to be cold at night because that's important and so they'll turn an air conditioner on or a fan but they air conditioner kicking on and off at night and actually can chew chew out of various sleep stages so you want to be really careful that is going the last metric on that is actually CO2 and so what you remember from our metabolism discussion is when you exhale you're breathing out CO2 well if your room is closed and the ventilation isn't great the amount of CO2 in your room starts to build up and we actually very specifically have things like trying to be cool and they want to be cold at night because that's important and so they'll turn an air conditioner on or a fan but they air conditioner kicking on and off at night and actually can chew chew out of various sleep stages so you want to be really careful that is going the last metric on that is actually CO2 and so what you remember from our metabolism discussion is when you exhale you're breathing out CO2 well if your room is closed and the ventilation isn't great the amount of CO2 in your room starts to build up and we actually very specifically know the threshold based on information collected from the international space station actually we know the threshold at which CO2 crosses and starts disrupting sleep so we want to make sure that you're not sitting in this CO2 bath in front of your face and then breathing it back in and disrupting your sleep so environment is the second one the third one is actually now psychology so one of the members on our team is a Harvard MD and psychiatry and put together an entire sleep scan survey so we run through all that to see if there's anxiety depression anything like that know the threshold based on information collected from the international space station actually we know the threshold at which CO2 crosses and starts disrupting sleep so we want to make sure that you're not sitting in this CO2 bath in front of your face and then breathing it back in and disrupting your sleep so environment is the second one the third one is actually now psychology so one of the members on our team is a Harvard MD and psychiatry and put together an entire sleep scan survey so we run through all that to see if there's anxiety depression anything like that psychologically going on and then the fourth one there is if you have some sort of actual sleep pathology and so this again will include some eye tracking stuff that we can use so we take all those data they go back to our team we work in combination with Steve Lockey from Harvard who's done a ton of stuff he actually set up a lot of this circadian rhythm stuff in the national space station as well himself Jeffrey drummer and MD PhD etc and all these folks in a room go over your data identify what's going on and build action plans off of that occasionally those action psychologically going on and then the fourth one there is if you have some sort of actual sleep pathology and so this again will include some eye tracking stuff that we can use so we take all those data they go back to our team we work in combination with Steve Lockey from Harvard who's done a ton of stuff he actually set up a lot of this circadian rhythm stuff in the national space station as well himself Jeffrey drummer and MD PhD etc and all these folks in a room go over your data identify what's going on and build action plans off of that occasionally those action plans will include supplementation but only if necessary we're really going to try to come back and work through a system to improve the sleep however is needed so I realize that is not totally accessible for a lot of people but like if you really need to go to the end of the earth to figure out sleep that service is available absolutely rest sounds like an amazing tool given that most people won't be able to use it or access it although we will provide a linking case people plans will include supplementation but only if necessary we're really going to try to come back and work through a system to improve the sleep however is needed so I realize that is not totally accessible for a lot of people but like if you really need to go to the end of the earth to figure out sleep that service is available absolutely rest sounds like an amazing tool given that most people won't be able to use it or access it although we will provide a linking case people are interested in it and do want to try it you mentioned a few things that I think everyone should assay their sleeping environment for and determine whether or not they are hindering their sleep without realizing it for instance the air conditioning going on and off or this could be heater going on and off or central heating or cooling unit this could be keeping the room dark are interested in it and do want to try it you mentioned a few things that I think everyone should assay their sleeping environment for and determine whether or not they are hindering their sleep without realizing it for instance the air conditioning going on and off or this could be heater going on and off or central heating or cooling unit this could be keeping the room dark this could be cleaning your sheets certainly that doesn't require that one sign up for absolute rest so cleaning one sheets routinely keeping pets out of the bedroom as you admitted you don't entirely different opinions about that but if you're having sleep issues the dander from animals may be part of those issues and then one that I'll just add which I think is pretty interesting is there's some beautiful data out of Michael Turman's lab at Columbia Medical School this could be cleaning your sheets certainly that doesn't require that one sign up for absolute rest so cleaning one sheets routinely keeping pets out of the bedroom as you admitted you don't entirely different opinions about that but if you're having sleep issues the dander from animals may be part of those issues and then one that I'll just add which I think is pretty interesting is there's some beautiful data out of Michael Turman's lab at Columbia Medical School in New York on negative ionization and this sounds pretty wacky kind of new age I'm sure some you're like negative ionization but listen the Turman lab is a serious laboratory focus on circadian biology for many decades now negative ion concentrations are higher near coastal locations so if you've ever gone to the sea or gone on vacation and you sleep better near a body of water that's actually a real thing and there are negative ionization machines but there are also some things in New York on negative ionization and this sounds pretty wacky kind of new age I'm sure some you're like negative ionization but listen the Turman lab is a serious laboratory focus on circadian biology for many decades now negative ion concentrations are higher near coastal locations so if you've ever gone to the sea or gone on vacation and you sleep better near a body of water that's actually a real thing and there are negative ionization machines but there are also some things that one can do in order to increase the negative ion concentration in their sleeping environment that are nearly zero cost if not zero cost you can look those up online and we probably will do an entire episode about this in the future but I think what you describe for absolute rest really highlights a more general set of themes that I think are really important which is your sleep environment is an environment it's got a lot going on in it and it's worth running through the that one can do in order to increase the negative ion concentration in their sleeping environment that are nearly zero cost if not zero cost you can look those up online and we probably will do an entire episode about this in the future but I think what you describe for absolute rest really highlights a more general set of themes that I think are really important which is your sleep environment is an environment it's got a lot going on in it and it's worth running through the checklist that you described and asking you know where where things you know maybe not optimize but where am I really getting in my own way in terms of sleep all of this again being related the fact that getting excellent sleep consistently is a completely transform everything that you do and not getting excellent sleep consistently which is a challenge for so so many people will also transform everything that you do and think and feel but in the negative direction yeah I can also checklist that you described and asking you know where where things you know maybe not optimize but where am I really getting in my own way in terms of sleep all of this again being related the fact that getting excellent sleep consistently is a completely transform everything that you do and not getting excellent sleep consistently which is a challenge for so so many people will also transform everything that you do and think and feel but in the negative direction yeah I can also offer a few tips on sleep based on things we find most consistently for those that I can't go through the whole protocol one quick little actually app called time shifter is really cool for anyone that's dealing with consistent travel and jet lag so you can go and enter your location your time where you're going the location and then it'll actually back calculate and it'll give you full light stimulant food hydration and stuff protocol and you just follow along with that and we've used that offer a few tips on sleep based on things we find most consistently for those that I can't go through the whole protocol one quick little actually app called time shifter is really cool for anyone that's dealing with consistent travel and jet lag so you can go and enter your location your time where you're going the location and then it'll actually back calculate and it'll give you full light stimulant food hydration and stuff protocol and you just follow along with that and we've used that for many years actually especially when traveling like Abu Dhabi for advice and Mongolia and Brazil for the Olympics and start all over the place so that's I think that app is still available I hope so it's it's great a nice tool a couple of things we found major if you're dealing with acid reflex so if you're someone who has problems like that you can just elevate the head of your bed by like six inches so if you put little piece of wood or something underneath it you can also buy for many years actually especially when traveling like Abu Dhabi for advice and Mongolia and Brazil for the Olympics and start all over the place so that's I think that app is still available I hope so it's it's great a nice tool a couple of things we found major if you're dealing with acid reflex so if you're someone who has problems like that you can just elevate the head of your bed by like six inches so if you put little piece of wood or something underneath it you can also buy very inexpensive pillows that can elevate that now that's not solving the problem but at least can help you sleep it whether it's just that night or if it's a consistent problem you can do there if you're snoring like I said that's not really benign you should probably take a look at that your first step there is mouth tape if that doesn't work you can go through what's called myofunctional therapy which I don't know if you've covered that before but it's basically tongue exercises and that can be quite effective specifically for people who have problems with REM sleep very inexpensive pillows that can elevate that now that's not solving the problem but at least can help you sleep it whether it's just that night or if it's a consistent problem you can do there if you're snoring like I said that's not really benign you should probably take a look at that your first step there is mouth tape if that doesn't work you can go through what's called myofunctional therapy which I don't know if you've covered that before but it's basically tongue exercises and that can be quite effective specifically for people who have problems with REM sleep so myofunctional therapy it's just a it's kind of like you do like depending on the protocol some tongue exercises kind of the morning afternoon or night and that takes a while to be honest you're probably going to need at least six weeks before you start saying anything but that actually is pretty well demonstrated to help with sleep so you can probably google we could find a link for for exact protocols I don't want to describe all them but yeah you're going to strengthen your tongue so that it stops falling in the back of your neck and waking you up at night so that's so myofunctional therapy it's just a it's kind of like you do like depending on the protocol some tongue exercises kind of the morning afternoon or night and that takes a while to be honest you're probably going to need at least six weeks before you start saying anything but that actually is pretty well demonstrated to help with sleep so you can probably google we could find a link for for exact protocols I don't want to describe all them but yeah you're going to strengthen your tongue so that it stops falling in the back of your neck and waking you up at night so that's a really free easy free protocol to use if you're struggling with not it could be insomnia but it could be just things like when you get into bed you're super tired you can't fall asleep or things like that kind of a basic rule of thumb we use is only two things happen in your bed and if you can make sure those are the only two things you do in your bed the problems of falling sleep are in some you tend to go down those two things are you have sex and you sleep and nothing else goes a really free easy free protocol to use if you're struggling with not it could be insomnia but it could be just things like when you get into bed you're super tired you can't fall asleep or things like that kind of a basic rule of thumb we use is only two things happen in your bed and if you can make sure those are the only two things you do in your bed the problems of falling sleep are in some you tend to go down those two things are you have sex and you sleep and nothing else goes down in your bed and so you can make that environment very special and that can help quite effectively improve your ability to fall asleep and then not wake up early so keeping that environment specific to what it's for can be effective the only other thing I would think of is and I hate to say this because it's not super practical but it's just quite clear at this point sleeping with a partner in your bed it's just not very good for sleep so good luck with that one I know down in your bed and so you can make that environment very special and that can help quite effectively improve your ability to fall asleep and then not wake up early so keeping that environment specific to what it's for can be effective the only other thing I would think of is and I hate to say this because it's not super practical but it's just quite clear at this point sleeping with a partner in your bed it's just not very good for sleep so good luck with that one I know you can do a couple of things if it helps you can get two smaller beds and put them right next to each other if you can actually have separate sheets that alone can be helpful so if you get maybe if you're on a king size bed or something and I get I know some people they're just like there's no chance but if you want to know the cost for your like the effective and your relationship lose your you can do a couple of things if it helps you can get two smaller beds and put them right next to each other if you can actually have separate sheets that alone can be helpful so if you get maybe if you're on a king size bed or something and I get I know some people they're just like there's no chance but if you want to know the cost for your like the effective and your relationship lose your loved one ideally please don't please don't oh my goodness so the only last thing I want to mention here is something that's popped up just a few times recently but you're going to see more which is called orthosomnia so that is a term that is people are growing concerned over which is wearables and sleep trackers causing sleep issues so people basically become too obsessed with loved one ideally please don't please don't oh my goodness so the only last thing I want to mention here is something that's popped up just a few times recently but you're going to see more which is called orthosomnia so that is a term that is people are growing concerned over which is wearables and sleep trackers causing sleep issues so people basically become too obsessed with optimizing maximizing scores and that alone well actually it's actually you so you learn when to wake up and so you have actually an anticipatory response when many hours prior to waking up so if you actually learn to have a little bit of a what's a little molecule of like excitement and reward oh dopamine that's the one if you start getting that because you wake up and you get super excited to check your score or your phone or your phone or your phone or your phone or whatever in the optimizing maximizing scores and that alone well actually it's actually you so you learn when to wake up and so you have actually an anticipatory response when many hours prior to waking up so if you actually learn to have a little bit of a what's a little molecule of like excitement and reward oh dopamine that's the one if you start getting that because you wake up and you get super excited to check your score or your phone or your phone or your phone or your phone or whatever in the evening morning that'll actually start carving back your wake up time because you start launching it so it can ruin sleep becoming too obsessed so what I'll say is if you're going to use a sleep tracker and you just like don't care you want to check it and you have fun with it great but if like you are really really really interested in it and you pay a lot of attention to it don't check your sleep score for at least the first 60 minutes after waking up and then you know that should help you that's a great tool I think they'll and pieces of advice I think generally because I evening morning that'll actually start carving back your wake up time because you start launching it so it can ruin sleep becoming too obsessed so what I'll say is if you're going to use a sleep tracker and you just like don't care you want to check it and you have fun with it great but if like you are really really really interested in it and you pay a lot of attention to it don't check your sleep score for at least the first 60 minutes after waking up and then you know that should help you that's a great tool I think they'll and pieces of advice I think generally because I think a lot of people are waking up in the middle of the night checking their phone two or three times per night I'm kind of wondering why they're doing that and I'm guessing it's this anticipatory wake up circuit yeah you absolutely should use either your night mode or do not disturb or airplane mode or something overnight or leave it out of the room yeah I mean if you have to wake up and like some people have like a family member who's maybe not in great health and so they have to get their phone around and keep stay calm or things like that so I get it you're like I can't think a lot of people are waking up in the middle of the night checking their phone two or three times per night I'm kind of wondering why they're doing that and I'm guessing it's this anticipatory wake up circuit yeah you absolutely should use either your night mode or do not disturb or airplane mode or something overnight or leave it out of the room yeah I mean if you have to wake up and like some people have like a family member who's maybe not in great health and so they have to get their phone around and keep stay calm or things like that so I get it you're like I can't leave it out that you leave it in there leave it in do not disturb and enter and their phone number or whoever's phone number so only they can get through but keep it black and white so if you do have to look at your phone at night you see black and white and you do not have notification so make sure that there's no notification for no email and the new DM like get all that stuff off your screen and so you look at the did anybody call did anybody text of importance what time is it no emergency going on black and white okay right back to sleep so that can help a little bit leave it out that you leave it in there leave it in do not disturb and enter and their phone number or whoever's phone number so only they can get through but keep it black and white so if you do have to look at your phone at night you see black and white and you do not have notification so make sure that there's no notification for no email and the new DM like get all that stuff off your screen and so you look at the did anybody call did anybody text of importance what time is it no emergency going on black and white okay right back to sleep so that can help a little bit one of the supplements that I found is extremely useful for being able to fall back a sleep if I've woken up in the middle of the night and for some reason can't and is also very effective for enhancing sleep when one is ingesting fewer carbohydrates an issue that a lot of people run into or for people that are fasting for many hours before sleep you know people are trying to not eat anything within you know two to four hours but is it an ostatol 900 milligrams of my myo and ostatol one of the supplements that I found is extremely useful for being able to fall back a sleep if I've woken up in the middle of the night and for some reason can't and is also very effective for enhancing sleep when one is ingesting fewer carbohydrates an issue that a lot of people run into or for people that are fasting for many hours before sleep you know people are trying to not eat anything within you know two to four hours but is it an ostatol 900 milligrams of my myo and ostatol I find again this is anic data to be clear that if I wake up in the middle of the night and I've taken 900 milligrams of an ostatol before initially falling asleep that I fall back asleep much more easily so that's why I've added 900 milligrams of an ostatol to my so-called sleep stack I've also tried just taking it alone and it works well alone but it works better of course with the I find again this is anic data to be clear that if I wake up in the middle of the night and I've taken 900 milligrams of an ostatol before initially falling asleep that I fall back asleep much more easily so that's why I've added 900 milligrams of an ostatol to my so-called sleep stack I've also tried just taking it alone and it works well alone but it works better of course with the mag 3 and 8 apogenin themian sleep stack the that also in terms of tools for sleep the the app a revery that was developed by my colleague dr. David Spiegel who is a medical doctor at Stanford psychiatry Stanford School of Medicine psychiatry there is a free trial there's a nominal cost if you use it month to month but the data are really strong that people that use that I think it's 8 to mag 3 and 8 apogenin themian sleep stack the that also in terms of tools for sleep the the app a revery that was developed by my colleague dr. David Spiegel who is a medical doctor at Stanford psychiatry Stanford School of Medicine psychiatry there is a free trial there's a nominal cost if you use it month to month but the data are really strong that people that use that I think it's 8 to 11 minute sleep hypnosis once a week and it doesn't have to be in the middle of the night when you wake up really helps improve people's ability to fall asleep quickly stay asleep fall back asleep if they wake up in the middle of the night in some cases curing insomnia in other cases really just helping people with their general sleep issues and I mentioned this because obviously it's a technology it's not a supplement but I know that some people are supplement a verse also if you 11 minute sleep hypnosis once a week and it doesn't have to be in the middle of the night when you wake up really helps improve people's ability to fall asleep quickly stay asleep fall back asleep if they wake up in the middle of the night in some cases curing insomnia in other cases really just helping people with their general sleep issues and I mentioned this because obviously it's a technology it's not a supplement but I know that some people are supplement a verse also if you look at the cost comparison between taking the sleep stack totally and the referee app it's pennies on the dollar really so again I'm a proponent of both for myself but I realize that people have varying budgets and again I should say as always behavioral tools first and I think of the referee app as as a more or less a behavioral tool yeah it's it's really just a tool any of these look at the cost comparison between taking the sleep stack totally and the referee app it's pennies on the dollar really so again I'm a proponent of both for myself but I realize that people have varying budgets and again I should say as always behavioral tools first and I think of the referee app as as a more or less a behavioral tool yeah it's it's really just a tool any of these breathwork protocols hypnosis protocols they're just a tool for you to touch back in with your own physiology rather than a a substance that's coming in so I fully support those we have used a number of those in protocols there's some other tricks that we can pull in those areas I probably shouldn't say this but the reality is depending on what's keeping you up sometimes we recommend breathwork protocols hypnosis protocols they're just a tool for you to touch back in with your own physiology rather than a a substance that's coming in so I fully support those we have used a number of those in protocols there's some other tricks that we can pull in those areas I probably shouldn't say this but the reality is depending on what's keeping you up sometimes we recommend just getting up and getting it done like if it's a really like if it's a project or a thing or whatever like sometimes it rather than laying there all night not sleeping you can get up get it done and then if you stay awake fine at least the anxiety's gone or sometimes you can actually go back to sleep because you're like especially if the task only literally would take like 10 or 15 minutes it may ruin your sleep but you're you're gonna have a room to sleep anyways so you can try just getting up and getting it done like if it's a really like if it's a project or a thing or whatever like sometimes it rather than laying there all night not sleeping you can get up get it done and then if you stay awake fine at least the anxiety's gone or sometimes you can actually go back to sleep because you're like especially if the task only literally would take like 10 or 15 minutes it may ruin your sleep but you're you're gonna have a room to sleep anyways so you can try that tool you don't want to pull that card very often and you have to be very careful to what you consider to be something worthy of doing that but that is like between me and you and nobody else here that's a tool I have used personally more than a few times or it's just like I get an idea and I don't lose it or like the solution for something you've been doing on for a long time pops in your head just like and you're not wanting to forget it just get up get it done and get on that tool you don't want to pull that card very often and you have to be very careful to what you consider to be something worthy of doing that but that is like between me and you and nobody else here that's a tool I have used personally more than a few times or it's just like I get an idea and I don't lose it or like the solution for something you've been doing on for a long time pops in your head just like and you're not wanting to forget it just get up get it done and get on your day in several previous episodes you emphasized how exercise induces various adaptations depending on the types of a city volume intensity etc of the exercise and that during exercise the degree of adaptation that one triggers is often associated with things that normally we don't associate with exercise related health things like huge increases in blood pressure during exercise your day in several previous episodes you emphasized how exercise induces various adaptations depending on the types of a city volume intensity etc of the exercise and that during exercise the degree of adaptation that one triggers is often associated with things that normally we don't associate with exercise related health things like huge increases in blood pressure during exercise huge increases in inflammatory markers muscle damage and these things all sound terrible but as you beautifully explained all of that triggers adaptations that then bring those markers below the baseline with which they were previous to the exercise so that's the adaptation and the recovery within the realm of supplementation and nutrition I'm aware of a number of things some herbal huge increases in inflammatory markers muscle damage and these things all sound terrible but as you beautifully explained all of that triggers adaptations that then bring those markers below the baseline with which they were previous to the exercise so that's the adaptation and the recovery within the realm of supplementation and nutrition I'm aware of a number of things some herbal some lipid based other compounds that are used for various things but that are known to have a potent anti-inflammatory effect things like omega-3 fatty acids ashwagandha for its effect on cortisol although that's a bit indirect to the inflammatory pathway curcumin and things of that sort given that we want inflammation in order to trigger the adaptation response to exercise some lipid based other compounds that are used for various things but that are known to have a potent anti-inflammatory effect things like omega-3 fatty acids ashwagandha for its effect on cortisol although that's a bit indirect to the inflammatory pathway curcumin and things of that sort given that we want inflammation in order to trigger the adaptation response to exercise and given that we want to reduce inflammation in the recovery period can we put together a logical framework as to when is best to take anything anti-inflammatory whether it's supplement-based or prescription or over-the-counter drug and when to strictly avoid taking any anti-inflammatory supplement or behavioral tool you mentioned ice can reduce inflammation that's why you don't want to do it too close to exercise anyway I think you get the gist of the question and given that we want to reduce inflammation in the recovery period can we put together a logical framework as to when is best to take anything anti-inflammatory whether it's supplement-based or prescription or over-the-counter drug and when to strictly avoid taking any anti-inflammatory supplement or behavioral tool you mentioned ice can reduce inflammation that's why you don't want to do it too close to exercise anyway I think you get the gist of the question what about specific supplements related to inflammation and anti-inflammatory responses what are the best ones when should we take them when should we avoid taking them the way that I think about it is understanding what we call the fitness fatigue model so what I mean by that is whenever you do some sort of insult the whole idea is for you to come back and get an adaptation now recovery is not adaptation right recovery recovery adaptation is what happens after you're recovered right so what about specific supplements related to inflammation and anti-inflammatory responses what are the best ones when should we take them when should we avoid taking them the way that I think about it is understanding what we call the fitness fatigue model so what I mean by that is whenever you do some sort of insult the whole idea is for you to come back and get an adaptation now recovery is not adaptation right recovery recovery adaptation is what happens after you're recovered right so there's a very important distinction there fitness fatigue model says basically you've done something and you've got an adaptation and you've enhanced fitness and by fitness in this case I mean it as a non-specific term so you got stronger you've improved your endurance like whatever thing you're trying to train for at the same time though your fatigue elevated so what happens is if fitness increases at the same or similar rate as fatigue your performance actually isn't any better until you may there's a very important distinction there fitness fatigue model says basically you've done something and you've got an adaptation and you've enhanced fitness and by fitness in this case I mean it as a non-specific term so you got stronger you've improved your endurance like whatever thing you're trying to train for at the same time though your fatigue elevated so what happens is if fitness increases at the same or similar rate as fatigue your performance actually isn't any better until you may think oh my program isn't working I need to then train harder or I need to take more and I inflammatory or whatever the things are when reality all you really need to do is reduce fatigue and if you do that your performance will increase and all the training adaptations will be actualized so the way that we do that is a couple of things first and foremost is actually a taper so the first step I think of if someone is training very very hard and you're not seeing any results and we want to think think oh my program isn't working I need to then train harder or I need to take more and I inflammatory or whatever the things are when reality all you really need to do is reduce fatigue and if you do that your performance will increase and all the training adaptations will be actualized so the way that we do that is a couple of things first and foremost is actually a taper so the first step I think of if someone is training very very hard and you're not seeing any results and we want to think about supplementation before I get there I want to think about taper and D-load if you're actually training hard and sleep and everything else is taking care of so just without going too far into taper some general general parameters there you want to think about about a 50% reduction in training volume over the course of about a week for every eight weeks of training super super rough right so if you've been training hard for three months for something you might want a taper for two about supplementation before I get there I want to think about taper and D-load if you're actually training hard and sleep and everything else is taking care of so just without going too far into taper some general general parameters there you want to think about about a 50% reduction in training volume over the course of about a week for every eight weeks of training super super rough right so if you've been training hard for three months for something you might want a taper for two weeks something like that right it's sort of a rough estimate that taper you actually don't need to reduce intensity because intensity is not the driver fatigue it tends to be volume so as long as your volume is reduced by 50% you can maintain intensity you can maintain in fact I generally would recommend maintaining frequency so if you used to work out four days a week keep it four days a week you can go down a little bit in frequency but if you go down too much in frequency you actually weeks something like that right it's sort of a rough estimate that taper you actually don't need to reduce intensity because intensity is not the driver fatigue it tends to be volume so as long as your volume is reduced by 50% you can maintain intensity you can maintain in fact I generally would recommend maintaining frequency so if you used to work out four days a week keep it four days a week you can go down a little bit in frequency but if you go down too much in frequency you actually tend to feel super lethargic so I wouldn't do that if you do those things correctly you can typically see somewhere between like a three to eight percent improvement or performance within a matter of days so it's important to do that we actually ran a study on cross country runners years ago testing on a metabolic heart muscle biopsies blood a whole bunch of things and we did it pre and post three weeks of taper and we actually this is cool because we did this tend to feel super lethargic so I wouldn't do that if you do those things correctly you can typically see somewhere between like a three to eight percent improvement or performance within a matter of days so it's important to do that we actually ran a study on cross country runners years ago testing on a metabolic heart muscle biopsies blood a whole bunch of things and we did it pre and post three weeks of taper and we actually this is cool because we did this in competitive season so there's a collegiate cross country runners and we got them to come to our lab three weeks before their conference championship ran them all through a bunch of testing biopsied them they went through their three week taper and then we biopsy them again and then they went and ran their conference championships and stuff well what happened was they ended up hitting about a 50 percent reduction because what they did is they took out what we call the junk volume so they kept their race tempost high intensity stuff in there they kept their recovery stuff and then that in competitive season so there's a collegiate cross country runners and we got them to come to our lab three weeks before their conference championship ran them all through a bunch of testing biopsied them they went through their three week taper and then we biopsy them again and then they went and ran their conference championships and stuff well what happened was they ended up hitting about a 50 percent reduction because what they did is they took out what we call the junk volume so they kept their race tempost high intensity stuff in there they kept their recovery stuff and then that medium pace they just basically reduced now they were terrified as any endurance runner or endurance athlete or participant would understand when you take volume away they tend to get very nervous and so they didn't like that but as a result of that what we saw is their VO2 max despite the fact that they covered half the mileage their VO2 max did not go down in three weeks of reduced taper your fitness is extremely stable and in fact once we actually looked at their data medium pace they just basically reduced now they were terrified as any endurance runner or endurance athlete or participant would understand when you take volume away they tend to get very nervous and so they didn't like that but as a result of that what we saw is their VO2 max despite the fact that they covered half the mileage their VO2 max did not go down in three weeks of reduced taper your fitness is extremely stable and in fact once we actually looked at their data the enzymes in their muscle were responsible for oxidative metabolism were maintained and so you don't have to worry about losing again fitness whether we're talking about overall performance or even oxygen capacity mitochondrial function etc that was all preserved obviously we saw performance go up what was actually really interesting is we saw I think it was around a 10% increase in type the enzymes in their muscle were responsible for oxidative metabolism were maintained and so you don't have to worry about losing again fitness whether we're talking about overall performance or even oxygen capacity mitochondrial function etc that was all preserved obviously we saw performance go up what was actually really interesting is we saw I think it was around a 10% increase in type 2 which are fast twitch muscle fiber size so we saw a 10% increase in fast twitch fiber size at the end of three weeks of tapering now what you may think is like wow I guess tapering is anabolic but that's probably not what happened what realistically probably happened was their volume of training was actually causing their fibers to be reduced in size and then once we 2 which are fast twitch muscle fiber size so we saw a 10% increase in fast twitch fiber size at the end of three weeks of tapering now what you may think is like wow I guess tapering is anabolic but that's probably not what happened what realistically probably happened was their volume of training was actually causing their fibers to be reduced in size and then once we remove that fatigue they just recovered back to normal so that's a good example of what I'm talking about once you remove the fatigue you can actually see enhanced in performance not because you're necessarily getting better but because you're removing the stimuli that's suppressing you so that being said the way that you want to think about recovery like this is although recovery especially like injury recovery like seems chaotic biology is very organized and there's a very remove that fatigue they just recovered back to normal so that's a good example of what I'm talking about once you remove the fatigue you can actually see enhanced in performance not because you're necessarily getting better but because you're removing the stimuli that's suppressing you so that being said the way that you want to think about recovery like this is although recovery especially like injury recovery like seems chaotic biology is very organized and there's a very specific three-step process that you're going to go through for recovery and then there are different supplements that can help you in each of those three areas so area one is basically inflammation so this is when the side of chiom storm comes rolling out it starts signaling the injuries there in this case even if it's muscle damage and activates immune system to kick on and that whole repair process happens there what you're trying to do effectively in fact this is why you probably specific three-step process that you're going to go through for recovery and then there are different supplements that can help you in each of those three areas so area one is basically inflammation so this is when the side of chiom storm comes rolling out it starts signaling the injuries there in this case even if it's muscle damage and activates immune system to kick on and that whole repair process happens there what you're trying to do effectively in fact this is why you probably ever wonder like why is inflammation a thing what you're trying to do is bring in fluid enhance the size and increase blood flow in so that you can get nutrients for repair and immune cells and then like that in the system and get the waste out so short-term inflammation even in the case of muscle soreness is the example we talked about in the previous episode but any inflammation it is part of the necessary process that's why you would not want to take an anti-inflammatory ever wonder like why is inflammation a thing what you're trying to do is bring in fluid enhance the size and increase blood flow in so that you can get nutrients for repair and immune cells and then like that in the system and get the waste out so short-term inflammation even in the case of muscle soreness is the example we talked about in the previous episode but any inflammation it is part of the necessary process that's why you would not want to take an anti-inflammatory in that state and so why you also would not want to do things like an ice bath so in that immediate inflammatory response time window this is you know seconds to hours after training you would want to stay away from things like that a good option here are things like omega-3s good evidence some there somewhere in the neighborhood of like two to five grams total typically like a one-to-one in that state and so why you also would not want to do things like an ice bath so in that immediate inflammatory response time window this is you know seconds to hours after training you would want to stay away from things like that a good option here are things like omega-3s good evidence some there somewhere in the neighborhood of like two to five grams total typically like a one-to-one EPA to DHA ratio is fine similarly this is another example of when good doesn't mean more is better because for example there is actually evidence showing up to 15 grams will harm the immune response and so you don't just want to be like man I'm super sore I'm training harder I'm just going to go to 10 grams in here more and more you're actually causing yourself more of a problem so antioxidant and anti-inflammatories are fine again omega-3s in that dosage are a decent thing EPA to DHA ratio is fine similarly this is another example of when good doesn't mean more is better because for example there is actually evidence showing up to 15 grams will harm the immune response and so you don't just want to be like man I'm super sore I'm training harder I'm just going to go to 10 grams in here more and more you're actually causing yourself more of a problem so antioxidant and anti-inflammatories are fine again omega-3s in that dosage are a decent thing you can also do something like 500 milligrams of curcumin three times a day that's going to be enough to keep you in a decent spot there are some other things that you could look up maybe some potential benefit for ginger and beswellia and some things like that for inflammation but under unless we're in like very specific circumstances where we have like an injury we're probably not going to those you know areas I just wanted to highlight one thing that came you can also do something like 500 milligrams of curcumin three times a day that's going to be enough to keep you in a decent spot there are some other things that you could look up maybe some potential benefit for ginger and beswellia and some things like that for inflammation but under unless we're in like very specific circumstances where we have like an injury we're probably not going to those you know areas I just wanted to highlight one thing that came up in a previous episode some not all people but some including myself are very sensitive to curcumin yep it has a very potent effect in reducing DHT, dehydrate testosterone and leads all sorts of clamping of testosterone associated positive things so I have experienced that myself I've had people write to me and say I don't understand I started taking a supplement up in a previous episode some not all people but some including myself are very sensitive to curcumin yep it has a very potent effect in reducing DHT, dehydrate testosterone and leads all sorts of clamping of testosterone associated positive things so I have experienced that myself I've had people write to me and say I don't understand I started taking a supplement curcumin supposed to be a great anti-inflammatory it flatlined my libido it took away my drive and kind of wondering what's going on there those people are very likely to be very DHT sensitive curcumin while it's a potent anti-inflammatory can also put inly reduce DHT but some people tolerate it quite well and are hearing this and probably think that's ridiculous well it's certainly substantiated by the about chemical pathways that curcumin taps into in the known roles of DHT curcumin supposed to be a great anti-inflammatory it flatlined my libido it took away my drive and kind of wondering what's going on there those people are very likely to be very DHT sensitive curcumin while it's a potent anti-inflammatory can also put inly reduce DHT but some people tolerate it quite well and are hearing this and probably think that's ridiculous well it's certainly substantiated by the about chemical pathways that curcumin taps into in the known roles of DHT on libido aggression power output etc and mood so just be wary that there's no way to predict this one simply has to figure it out empirically meaning you have to try and see if you like it or don't the good news is is those negative effects on DHT seem to reverse pretty quickly after ceasing to take curcumin so just a mention of something that came up in a previous episode but in case people didn't hear that that segment just wanted to highlight those those facts further evidence on libido aggression power output etc and mood so just be wary that there's no way to predict this one simply has to figure it out empirically meaning you have to try and see if you like it or don't the good news is is those negative effects on DHT seem to reverse pretty quickly after ceasing to take curcumin so just a mention of something that came up in a previous episode but in case people didn't hear that that segment just wanted to highlight those those facts further evidence do I strongly discourage strongly discourage taking anything in the anti-inflammatory antioxidant realm unless you actually have a reason to do so if you're waking up and you're like maybe I'm in flame that's probably not a good approach let's have a reason to do so step two was actually what we call proliferation and that's kind of like the cleanup crew that's when you're going to be going in there and cleaning out dead cells and debris and miswilded proteins and things like that do I strongly discourage strongly discourage taking anything in the anti-inflammatory antioxidant realm unless you actually have a reason to do so if you're waking up and you're like maybe I'm in flame that's probably not a good approach let's have a reason to do so step two was actually what we call proliferation and that's kind of like the cleanup crew that's when you're going to be going in there and cleaning out dead cells and debris and miswilded proteins and things like that at this stage a fantastic evidence-based supplement is glutamine glutamine 20 grams a day we typically honestly split it up into two dosage 10 grams morning 10 grams night it's a conditional amino acid which means you can make it your body can make enough of it at times and other times you may want to support it generally those conditional times are things like burn victims high stress situations or injury things like that so there isn't also like a ton of downside to glutamine at this stage a fantastic evidence-based supplement is glutamine glutamine 20 grams a day we typically honestly split it up into two dosage 10 grams morning 10 grams night it's a conditional amino acid which means you can make it your body can make enough of it at times and other times you may want to support it generally those conditional times are things like burn victims high stress situations or injury things like that so there isn't also like a ton of downside to glutamine because it can go through transamination which means your body can take it and say like we don't need anything here for our muscle recovery let's make it into something else and use it for whatever else is needed so it's kind of another one of these like low risk products is also why you see it in a lot of recovery products if you're ever wondering like what the heck is that in there I don't need amino acids and you're thinking it's like for protein synthesis because it can go through transamination which means your body can take it and say like we don't need anything here for our muscle recovery let's make it into something else and use it for whatever else is needed so it's kind of another one of these like low risk products is also why you see it in a lot of recovery products if you're ever wondering like what the heck is that in there I don't need amino acids and you're thinking it's like for protein synthesis it's really not it's because of this it is beneficial to this proliferation process I've been taking glutamine for years I tend to take it in higher dosages several times throughout the day if I'm ever feeling particularly run down yeah I know there are decent data not great but decent data on the role of glutamine for leaky gut totally we're off saying leaky gut that's getting a little bit into the realm of like not super well substantiated but in the in the peer it's really not it's because of this it is beneficial to this proliferation process I've been taking glutamine for years I tend to take it in higher dosages several times throughout the day if I'm ever feeling particularly run down yeah I know there are decent data not great but decent data on the role of glutamine for leaky gut totally we're off saying leaky gut that's getting a little bit into the realm of like not super well substantiated but in the in the peer reviewed literature but some a lot of anac data and certainly some peer reviewed work but not a ton and then there is also growing interest in the idea that glutamine because it can trigger activation of the neurons in the gut that signal to the dopamine pathway in the brain that it can be used to offset sugar cravings this is kind of an interesting new and emerging theme which makes sense given the biology of the neurons in the gut that respond to specific amino acids including reviewed literature but some a lot of anac data and certainly some peer reviewed work but not a ton and then there is also growing interest in the idea that glutamine because it can trigger activation of the neurons in the gut that signal to the dopamine pathway in the brain that it can be used to offset sugar cravings this is kind of an interesting new and emerging theme which makes sense given the biology of the neurons in the gut that respond to specific amino acids including glutamine, essential fatty acids and sugar and because they respond to any and all three of those any one or combination of those I should say to trigger this dopamine response some people have taken to a teaspoon or so of glutamine in some water or other drink a couple times throughout the day as a way to reduce their sugar cravings because what's essentially doing is it's tricking the pathway into activation of those neurons through an alternate ligand receptor interaction. glutamine, essential fatty acids and sugar and because they respond to any and all three of those any one or combination of those I should say to trigger this dopamine response some people have taken to a teaspoon or so of glutamine in some water or other drink a couple times throughout the day as a way to reduce their sugar cravings because what's essentially doing is it's tricking the pathway into activation of those neurons through an alternate ligand receptor interaction. Right also another interesting point there are very I'm trying to think right now I'll put up my head I can't think of a time and I've used glutamine a lot I can't think of a time where I've ever heard anybody come back with any side effect reports. I think if you take enough of it you can get some gastric distress but of course you take enough of any powder and substance, mixing water you're going to get a gastric distress response and what I've noticed about gastric Right also another interesting point there are very I'm trying to think right now I'll put up my head I can't think of a time and I've used glutamine a lot I can't think of a time where I've ever heard anybody come back with any side effect reports. I think if you take enough of it you can get some gastric distress but of course you take enough of any powder and substance, mixing water you're going to get a gastric distress response and what I've noticed about gastric distress with things like creatine glutamine and even protein powder so that matter I use a high quality way protein powder routinely is that if you build up to it over the course of a few days then you can get away with using much higher dosages without any issue. Yeah yeah beta alanine is the same thing by the way we sort of talked about that earlier if you've ever tried that and you're like oh my gosh like I feel like I've just rolled around and grass and my skin is itching everywhere. distress with things like creatine glutamine and even protein powder so that matter I use a high quality way protein powder routinely is that if you build up to it over the course of a few days then you can get away with using much higher dosages without any issue. Yeah yeah beta alanine is the same thing by the way we sort of talked about that earlier if you've ever tried that and you're like oh my gosh like I feel like I've just rolled around and grass and my skin is itching everywhere. It's that it's ants under the skin sensation. Yeah all that stuff. Yeah you can just take a little bit of a lower dosage and be fine for the most part and then you will build up a tolerance to that pretty quickly so you can up that dosage along the way so what we will often times do they start at a dosage that's pretty minimal like two grams and then every week or so you can go up another gram until you get to whatever final point you want to be five six grams day you know whatever so that's another way you can sort of mitigate that problem. So the third step in this recovery It's that it's ants under the skin sensation. Yeah all that stuff. Yeah you can just take a little bit of a lower dosage and be fine for the most part and then you will build up a tolerance to that pretty quickly so you can up that dosage along the way so what we will often times do they start at a dosage that's pretty minimal like two grams and then every week or so you can go up another gram until you get to whatever final point you want to be five six grams day you know whatever so that's another way you can sort of mitigate that problem. So the third step in this recovery process after inflammation proliferation we're now into remodeling and this is when you're actually you know quote unquote growing back bigger and stronger this is where the majority of the repairs actually taking place and at this point we're basically playing a micronutrient and macronutrient game right by that I mean we've talked about basic macronutrients one thing to pay attention to oftentimes if people are hurt whether they had an injury or they've had just process after inflammation proliferation we're now into remodeling and this is when you're actually you know quote unquote growing back bigger and stronger this is where the majority of the repairs actually taking place and at this point we're basically playing a micronutrient and macronutrient game right by that I mean we've talked about basic macronutrients one thing to pay attention to oftentimes if people are hurt whether they had an injury or they've had just their super sore and they are concerned about eating excess calories they tend to want to eat less food during this process because they're like I'm not working out so much so I'm going to eat less calories well one of the things that you have to pay attention to is injury can increase space and metabolic rate by up to 10 percent so what you want to do in general is just take your calories up about 10 percent at least that's what I recommend if that is an extended period of time their super sore and they are concerned about eating excess calories they tend to want to eat less food during this process because they're like I'm not working out so much so I'm going to eat less calories well one of the things that you have to pay attention to is injury can increase space and metabolic rate by up to 10 percent so what you want to do in general is just take your calories up about 10 percent at least that's what I recommend if that is an extended period of time then yes you may put on a slight amount of body fat or something but if that also means you come back some percentage faster then it's worth the exchange so we recommend that in terms of your carbohydrate or fat split I'm not super worried about it my general recommendation is just don't make any major changes relative to what you were doing right keep yourself pretty much in the same spot in terms of protein this is the big one you want to make sure you were absolutely at one then yes you may put on a slight amount of body fat or something but if that also means you come back some percentage faster then it's worth the exchange so we recommend that in terms of your carbohydrate or fat split I'm not super worried about it my general recommendation is just don't make any major changes relative to what you were doing right keep yourself pretty much in the same spot in terms of protein this is the big one you want to make sure you were absolutely at one gram per pound and body weight because we need those amino acids to come in and start helping with recovery one gram of protein per pound of body weight or more or one gram or more yeah it's gonna be very little downside to having more remember protein and carbohydrates both stimulate insulin and remember insulin is anabolic and so we're trying to drive this process of gram per pound and body weight because we need those amino acids to come in and start helping with recovery one gram of protein per pound of body weight or more or one gram or more yeah it's gonna be very little downside to having more remember protein and carbohydrates both stimulate insulin and remember insulin is anabolic and so we're trying to drive this process of recovery that's why you want both so you wouldn't want to skimp on carbohydrates in this phase nor would you want to skimp on protein because you need the activation the drive into the tissue as well as the structure going back to one of our earlier conversations and at this point in the week I honestly can't remember at all what episode we cover this in but I gave an analogy about using making a campfire and using fat and carbohydrates as the wood and the log and the protein recovery that's why you want both so you wouldn't want to skimp on carbohydrates in this phase nor would you want to skimp on protein because you need the activation the drive into the tissue as well as the structure going back to one of our earlier conversations and at this point in the week I honestly can't remember at all what episode we cover this in but I gave an analogy about using making a campfire and using fat and carbohydrates as the wood and the log and the protein were the the metal structure so you need that supply if you're trying to bang if you've cleared out in the previous step damage proteins and you need to make new ones to recover that process you have to have the raw supply and material so you wouldn't want to avoid either one of those things there's actually some indirect inflammation management that comes from fatty acids but you actually sort of alluded to earlier I don't think you need to necessarily go crazy you don't need to change your fat intake that much just don't drop it you know depending on where you're at so if you're a were the the metal structure so you need that supply if you're trying to bang if you've cleared out in the previous step damage proteins and you need to make new ones to recover that process you have to have the raw supply and material so you wouldn't want to avoid either one of those things there's actually some indirect inflammation management that comes from fatty acids but you actually sort of alluded to earlier I don't think you need to necessarily go crazy you don't need to change your fat intake that much just don't drop it you know depending on where you're at so if you're a little bit of a higher carb lower fat person great if you're moderate great if you're the indirect if you're higher fat lower carb person awesome just don't make an extreme change and don't and try to not be on the extremes of either one of those ratios but the only specific number to pay attention again is that protein number and if you go a little bit high or even a lot high it's totally fine just don't go low so that's the macronutrient portion of remodeling in terms of micronutrients little bit of a higher carb lower fat person great if you're moderate great if you're the indirect if you're higher fat lower carb person awesome just don't make an extreme change and don't and try to not be on the extremes of either one of those ratios but the only specific number to pay attention again is that protein number and if you go a little bit high or even a lot high it's totally fine just don't go low so that's the macronutrient portion of remodeling in terms of micronutrients to be honest you just get your bases covered this is one a basic multivitamin is effective what you're really trying to look at here are vitamin A and zinc they actually have independent mechanisms that are helpful here but those are typically covered in most multivitamins so we generally just give people a multivitamin magnesium is actually has some some benefits here something like six milligrams per kilogram of body weight is the dosage you're looking for there magnesium to be honest you just get your bases covered this is one a basic multivitamin is effective what you're really trying to look at here are vitamin A and zinc they actually have independent mechanisms that are helpful here but those are typically covered in most multivitamins so we generally just give people a multivitamin magnesium is actually has some some benefits here something like six milligrams per kilogram of body weight is the dosage you're looking for there magnesium citrate is probably has the most evidence in terms of this respect but it doesn't mean actually have no reason to think you couldn't use glycinate or if you're using other form for sleep that probably fine I don't know that for sure but I can't think of a reason why the other forms of magnesium would all the sudden not work so you could probably choose whichever form you like albeit citrate has probably the most research in this aspect the only other things you would citrate is probably has the most evidence in terms of this respect but it doesn't mean actually have no reason to think you couldn't use glycinate or if you're using other form for sleep that probably fine I don't know that for sure but I can't think of a reason why the other forms of magnesium would all the sudden not work so you could probably choose whichever form you like albeit citrate has probably the most research in this aspect the only other things you would probably consider here three things calcium might be on your list particularly if you're trying to if you're concerned with some sort of bone injury and we've sort of gone past like recovery and we're actually like into injury so you'll see that in recovery products occasionally and that's why and then the last two ones of course are vitamin D and that's pretty well researched and then the last one is actually something that can help you if you're at this stage and you still are dealing with a lot of soreness or not and that is tart cherry juice and that's actually probably consider here three things calcium might be on your list particularly if you're trying to if you're concerned with some sort of bone injury and we've sort of gone past like recovery and we're actually like into injury so you'll see that in recovery products occasionally and that's why and then the last two ones of course are vitamin D and that's pretty well researched and then the last one is actually something that can help you if you're at this stage and you still are dealing with a lot of soreness or not and that is tart cherry juice and that's actually effective for both doms muscle injury muscle soreness and actually has another benefit of potentially eating with sleep so I'm not a bad one to turn to as well and there's a number of companies that make these things yeah and then there's actually more ongoing research that I know of on those areas but promising literature we'll say not often but every once in a while on this podcast I will solicit social media for questions from the audience where I should say the audience to be and then effective for both doms muscle injury muscle soreness and actually has another benefit of potentially eating with sleep so I'm not a bad one to turn to as well and there's a number of companies that make these things yeah and then there's actually more ongoing research that I know of on those areas but promising literature we'll say not often but every once in a while on this podcast I will solicit social media for questions from the audience where I should say the audience to be and then ask some of those questions on the fly during the podcast I do this with Dr. Lex Friedman I'm going to do it with you your goal is to answer each of these questions certainly not all of them thousands of them within the last couple of hours to answer each of these questions in three or four sentences I certainly won't be counting the number of sentences that you speak so just know ask some of those questions on the fly during the podcast I do this with Dr. Lex Friedman I'm going to do it with you your goal is to answer each of these questions certainly not all of them thousands of them within the last couple of hours to answer each of these questions in three or four sentences I certainly won't be counting the number of sentences that you speak so just know if you want to go over a little bit that's fine but feel free to refer to your Instagram site at a future time where you might go more in depth or to refer to a study or if you like you can also say pass if you don't think that you can answer the question succinctly enough for this format and here the goal is not to put you on the spot the goal is simply to allow the audience to ask some questions directly and I confess I'm looking at these for the first time so I'll try and be quick if you want to go over a little bit that's fine but feel free to refer to your Instagram site at a future time where you might go more in depth or to refer to a study or if you like you can also say pass if you don't think that you can answer the question succinctly enough for this format and here the goal is not to put you on the spot the goal is simply to allow the audience to ask some questions directly and I confess I'm looking at these for the first time so I'll try and be quick with my reading some of these we may have touched on in previous episodes or in this episode even in which case you can just kind of cue us to the reminder this is not directly related to supplementation but it is related to nutrition and I don't think we touched on this directly can we do intermittent fasting aka time restrictor feeding with keto and still gain muscle mass TBD I am with my reading some of these we may have touched on in previous episodes or in this episode even in which case you can just kind of cue us to the reminder this is not directly related to supplementation but it is related to nutrition and I don't think we touched on this directly can we do intermittent fasting aka time restrictor feeding with keto and still gain muscle mass TBD I am quite clear such study does not exist so I don't know I think I've alluded to before that we did run an intermittent fasting 16-8 hypertrophy study there was no keto arm the result of that study by the time this comes out we'll probably be ready though I'm not sure so I can't comment on I haven't looked at the data but regarding whether or not if you did that with keto or not I can't quite clear such study does not exist so I don't know I think I've alluded to before that we did run an intermittent fasting 16-8 hypertrophy study there was no keto arm the result of that study by the time this comes out we'll probably be ready though I'm not sure so I can't comment on I haven't looked at the data but regarding whether or not if you did that with keto or not I can't comment scientifically do you ever prescribe the use of GABA supplements well I can't prescribe anything to make sure we're clear but your professor you can profess I can profess we generally don't spend too much time on GABA rarely is it okay to wait train fasted then not break the fast and eat for three or four hours after training so in other words comment scientifically do you ever prescribe the use of GABA supplements well I can't prescribe anything to make sure we're clear but your professor you can profess I can profess we generally don't spend too much time on GABA rarely is it okay to wait train fasted then not break the fast and eat for three or four hours after training so in other words train fasted I do this but then also not eat immediately following training and wait another three to four hours after training once we have our results from intermittent fasting study back we will have a better answer here my general recommendation as it stands now though is as long as your total protein intake is sufficient you should be in a decent spot great a lot of questions train fasted I do this but then also not eat immediately following training and wait another three to four hours after training once we have our results from intermittent fasting study back we will have a better answer here my general recommendation as it stands now though is as long as your total protein intake is sufficient you should be in a decent spot great a lot of questions about fasting and training just to yeah turn with that can you train high performance fasted and how long before you need to refuel the body yeah you can certainly do that I know of actually many athletes some athletes that will do that though the vast majority will not as it gets higher and higher in intensity and or duration it gets more challenging but it really does come down to what you did the day before as well so if you ate sufficient calories a day before didn't train and your glycogen about fasting and training just to yeah turn with that can you train high performance fasted and how long before you need to refuel the body yeah you can certainly do that I know of actually many athletes some athletes that will do that though the vast majority will not as it gets higher and higher in intensity and or duration it gets more challenging but it really does come down to what you did the day before as well so if you ate sufficient calories a day before didn't train and your glycogen stores are topped off you have a fighting chance now the duration part of that equation is really to kind of depend upon you so are you really talking 30 45 minutes 16 minutes you're probably fine and whether you're out past that in several hours you may not be and then the only other comment I would make is there is keep in mind whenever you think about fasting and any other let's say against the textbook you know quote unquote strat style you really really need to be careful stores are topped off you have a fighting chance now the duration part of that equation is really to kind of depend upon you so are you really talking 30 45 minutes 16 minutes you're probably fine and whether you're out past that in several hours you may not be and then the only other comment I would make is there is keep in mind whenever you think about fasting and any other let's say against the textbook you know quote unquote strat style you really really need to be careful in thinking the difference between can I do it and is it optimal so I have absolutely no reason to think fasting like that would improve performance I only work for the most part with people who are trying to perform the highest level possible so I can't think of a scenario which I would go too fasting to try to enhance performance so whether or not you can maintain some level of performance probably will it provide any benefit I struggle to find scenarios in which that would actually in thinking the difference between can I do it and is it optimal so I have absolutely no reason to think fasting like that would improve performance I only work for the most part with people who are trying to perform the highest level possible so I can't think of a scenario which I would go too fasting to try to enhance performance so whether or not you can maintain some level of performance probably will it provide any benefit I struggle to find scenarios in which that would actually make you perform better how do different forms of carbohydrates impact performance and then right below it another question about carbohydrates which is does carbohydrate cycling work so these are two questions from people that I think don't know one another but a lot of questions about carbohydrates and performance which we've touched on anything else that you want to add to that conversation I don't think I really maybe you might want to think about carb loading slash make you perform better how do different forms of carbohydrates impact performance and then right below it another question about carbohydrates which is does carbohydrate cycling work so these are two questions from people that I think don't know one another but a lot of questions about carbohydrates and performance which we've touched on anything else that you want to add to that conversation I don't think I really maybe you might want to think about carb loading slash carbs cycling so carbohydrate loading does help however a misconception there is it's just you know a big bolipasta the night before that can help top off storages but really optimal carbohydrate loading prior to a long duration endurance performance is probably best over the course of three or four days so you want to gradually increase carbohydrate intake for multiple days rather than just carbs cycling so carbohydrate loading does help however a misconception there is it's just you know a big bolipasta the night before that can help top off storages but really optimal carbohydrate loading prior to a long duration endurance performance is probably best over the course of three or four days so you want to gradually increase carbohydrate intake for multiple days rather than just have one big bolipasta branch chain amino acids and essential amino acids supplementation yay nay or as I would say meh meh usually if your total protein intake is fine then you don't really have a need for them if you're for whatever any number of valid reasons total protein is not then going to an essential amino acid would be my first step rather than a BCAA now admittedly have one big bolipasta branch chain amino acids and essential amino acids supplementation yay nay or as I would say meh meh usually if your total protein intake is fine then you don't really have a need for them if you're for whatever any number of valid reasons total protein is not then going to an essential amino acid would be my first step rather than a BCAA now admittedly we actually do use essential amino acids somewhat regularly because it's also sort of like there's no real harm other than if you're price conscious and you're sort of like I'm wasting money that's fine the people I work with generally again that's not a few dollars for the maximize recoveries is not that great so we will sometimes use that pre-mitter post training in some circumstances a total we actually do use essential amino acids somewhat regularly because it's also sort of like there's no real harm other than if you're price conscious and you're sort of like I'm wasting money that's fine the people I work with generally again that's not a few dollars for the maximize recoveries is not that great so we will sometimes use that pre-mitter post training in some circumstances a total protein would be my high quality way something like that if you can't use way for whatever reasons there are plenty of high quality vegan proteins you could use if you want to top all that off though and add some essential amino acids it wouldn't hurt anything and may potentially help slightly so you choose based on that algorithm ah I was hoping somebody would ask this touch on it a little bit protein would be my high quality way something like that if you can't use way for whatever reasons there are plenty of high quality vegan proteins you could use if you want to top all that off though and add some essential amino acids it wouldn't hurt anything and may potentially help slightly so you choose based on that algorithm ah I was hoping somebody would ask this touch on it a little bit it's a little bit of a loaded question the way they phrased it so at risk of leading the witness does the mythical anabolic window really exist and I'm just laughing because of the way they pose the question they're already telling us what their stance is making it more effective as to create hypertrophy to eat within a certain time frame after working out I'm going to assume that this person genuinely wants to know whether or not the anabolic window really exists or not it's a little bit of a loaded question the way they phrased it so at risk of leading the witness does the mythical anabolic window really exist and I'm just laughing because of the way they pose the question they're already telling us what their stance is making it more effective as to create hypertrophy to eat within a certain time frame after working out I'm going to assume that this person genuinely wants to know whether or not the anabolic window really exists or not because they refer to it as mythical I'm going to assume that they're suspicious but what's the deal is the anabolic window a real thing the post-exercise anabolic window is extremely real so what this is you can see more detail in a number of videos on my youtube page I believe it is the idea that you need to must consume some sort of nutrients specifically usually protein in some because they refer to it as mythical I'm going to assume that they're suspicious but what's the deal is the anabolic window a real thing the post-exercise anabolic window is extremely real so what this is you can see more detail in a number of videos on my youtube page I believe it is the idea that you need to must consume some sort of nutrients specifically usually protein in some time domain 30 or 60 minutes post-exercise in order to maximize growth so is that window real yes are you hyper sensitized to nutrients in that time frame yes is it very important that you rehydrate replenish muscle glycogen and rebuild tissue quickly after exercise to maximize recovery absolutely it's not real though in the sense that you there you have to have it within 30 minutes in the case of protein as we talked about a second ago your total protein intake throughout time domain 30 or 60 minutes post-exercise in order to maximize growth so is that window real yes are you hyper sensitized to nutrients in that time frame yes is it very important that you rehydrate replenish muscle glycogen and rebuild tissue quickly after exercise to maximize recovery absolutely it's not real though in the sense that you there you have to have it within 30 minutes in the case of protein as we talked about a second ago your total protein intake throughout the day is more important timing though for things like carbohydrate especially if you're training multiple times a day it is very real so it is a very real thing it's just you may or may not actually care about it it may not be important for your context garlic seems like an appropriate question what if any functional roles does garlic have in performance garlic's actually really cool there's a number of things you can dive into that are outside of my three to four senses the day is more important timing though for things like carbohydrate especially if you're training multiple times a day it is very real so it is a very real thing it's just you may or may not actually care about it it may not be important for your context garlic seems like an appropriate question what if any functional roles does garlic have in performance garlic's actually really cool there's a number of things you can dive into that are outside of my three to four senses considering I'm at like two and a half probably already you're not going to find strong human data on garlic extract however there is a little bit suggesting it can actually enhance recovery from injury or potentially tissue damage so you got to kind of be careful though because in order to understand what's happening you have to differentiate between a Nate and adaptive recovery processes and when we say things like immunity realized friends that's not one thing that's just considering I'm at like two and a half probably already you're not going to find strong human data on garlic extract however there is a little bit suggesting it can actually enhance recovery from injury or potentially tissue damage so you got to kind of be careful though because in order to understand what's happening you have to differentiate between a Nate and adaptive recovery processes and when we say things like immunity realized friends that's not one thing that's just like a very colloquial term for a number of things again it's a verb like it's a noun right the immune system but it immunity is a bunch of processes or processes if you're about to correct my speech I'll correct yours right back not yours Andy listeners process tomato tomato it's a verb immunity is a verb this is my problem with immune boosters same issue right you're like whoa what like a very colloquial term for a number of things again it's a verb like it's a noun right the immune system but it immunity is a bunch of processes or processes if you're about to correct my speech I'll correct yours right back not yours Andy listeners process tomato tomato it's a verb immunity is a verb this is my problem with immune boosters same issue right you're like whoa what are you boosting specifically because in fact if you're boosting the wrong part of immunity during the wrong phase of recovery with garlic you may be actually hurting the process because your theoretically could be trying to downregulate that portions that you could upregulate an exportion that's the faster way to say it if you will so we actually you may see more data come out that says the garlic extracts now overrated I don't actually don't even know are you boosting specifically because in fact if you're boosting the wrong part of immunity during the wrong phase of recovery with garlic you may be actually hurting the process because your theoretically could be trying to downregulate that portions that you could upregulate an exportion that's the faster way to say it if you will so we actually you may see more data come out that says the garlic extracts now overrated I don't actually don't even know we just don't have enough human data on it but yeah there's some stuff there if you want to look hard enough I'm gonna ask this question for myself because I'm curious to know the answer selfish tart cherry extract pretty effective actually for two things potentially hating and sleep getting asleep as well as muscle soreness that's the bulk of the research is in muscle soreness we just don't have enough human data on it but yeah there's some stuff there if you want to look hard enough I'm gonna ask this question for myself because I'm curious to know the answer selfish tart cherry extract pretty effective actually for two things potentially hating and sleep getting asleep as well as muscle soreness that's the bulk of the research is in muscle soreness and seems to be a moderate effect there I think for people that might be interested in dosages of things like tart cherry extract garlic etc obviously dr. Andy Galpins Instagram and Twitter a great places to ask questions like that and define questions answers to questions like that as well as examine.com as a terrific website they actually recently overhauled their entire website so they have this human effect matrix that shows the the effects and the strength of and seems to be a moderate effect there I think for people that might be interested in dosages of things like tart cherry extract garlic etc obviously dr. Andy Galpins Instagram and Twitter a great places to ask questions like that and define questions answers to questions like that as well as examine.com as a terrific website they actually recently overhauled their entire website so they have this human effect matrix that shows the the effects and the strength of different effects in human studies of many many different compounds relating to everything to hormone health and men and women sports performance cognitive performance it doesn't cover everything but it certainly covers a lot with links to studies there's a lot that's available at completely zero cost by joining examine.com you can access some additional features and this is by the way not different effects in human studies of many many different compounds relating to everything to hormone health and men and women sports performance cognitive performance it doesn't cover everything but it certainly covers a lot with links to studies there's a lot that's available at completely zero cost by joining examine.com you can access some additional features and this is by the way not a paid endorsement from examine.com I'm simply a longtime user of examine.com myself and so I just want to cue people to it and again many of the resources there are available completely free of cost it's a wonderful site so for dosages of garlic tart cherry extract and things of that sort whether or not you're getting it from food or you're getting it from extra powders rather all of that information is pretty nicely laid out there so unless you have something to add to a paid endorsement from examine.com I'm simply a longtime user of examine.com myself and so I just want to cue people to it and again many of the resources there are available completely free of cost it's a wonderful site so for dosages of garlic tart cherry extract and things of that sort whether or not you're getting it from food or you're getting it from extra powders rather all of that information is pretty nicely laid out there so unless you have something to add to that I was just going to cue people to that resource. No I've been using that since the first day that website was launched I was made aware that it was coming. I've been fortunate to know those guys for a while so yeah I've used it I've used it in all my classes I use it I don't even know probably weekly at this point another nice feature that's actually on there is they have a series of like they'll do some topical reviews basically so they'll write a big paper out on muscle damage that I was just going to cue people to that resource. No I've been using that since the first day that website was launched I was made aware that it was coming. I've been fortunate to know those guys for a while so yeah I've used it I've used it in all my classes I use it I don't even know probably weekly at this point another nice feature that's actually on there is they have a series of like they'll do some topical reviews basically so they'll write a big paper out on muscle damage or blood pressure testosterone testosterone enhancement or hormone menstrual cycle and yeah PCOS I think they do one on and all kinds of stuff see you can search by topic like you know energy or recovery or whatever or you can search by you know black human c-x tractor like whatever number of things you want to do and I'll also tell you if there's any interactions to pay attention to do so it's really really nice so be careful you're taking A and B or whatever so yeah it's or blood pressure testosterone testosterone enhancement or hormone menstrual cycle and yeah PCOS I think they do one on and all kinds of stuff see you can search by topic like you know energy or recovery or whatever or you can search by you know black human c-x tractor like whatever number of things you want to do and I'll also tell you if there's any interactions to pay attention to do so it's really really nice so be careful you're taking A and B or whatever so yeah it's wonderful wonderful yeah they've done a marvelous job so thank you examine.com keep up keep up the amazing work well we've come close to the end of this episode and that means that we're close to the end of this series where you have so graciously joined us for six full episodes of the Hubertman Lab podcast to educate us on all things fitness episode one you reviewed and educated wonderful wonderful yeah they've done a marvelous job so thank you examine.com keep up keep up the amazing work well we've come close to the end of this episode and that means that we're close to the end of this series where you have so graciously joined us for six full episodes of the Hubertman Lab podcast to educate us on all things fitness episode one you reviewed and educated us on assessing our level of fitness in fact I learned so many ways of assessing fitness that I had not thought about and also assessing my recovery capacity for instance one thing that I'm definitely going to implement from that episode is a routine broad jump test and in-home high jump jump and touch test if people don't know what I'm referring to it's all contained in that episode us on assessing our level of fitness in fact I learned so many ways of assessing fitness that I had not thought about and also assessing my recovery capacity for instance one thing that I'm definitely going to implement from that episode is a routine broad jump test and in-home high jump jump and touch test if people don't know what I'm referring to it's all contained in that episode it's timestamped these are very straightforward zero cost ways to assess one's level of fitness there are a few others that require a bare minimum of technology like taking your pulse rate in very specific ways specific times also some timing of mile runs and some other things related to strength and hypertrophy and on and on really it's a it's a buffet of options that we can it's timestamped these are very straightforward zero cost ways to assess one's level of fitness there are a few others that require a bare minimum of technology like taking your pulse rate in very specific ways specific times also some timing of mile runs and some other things related to strength and hypertrophy and on and on really it's a it's a buffet of options that we can select from and I already know the four or five that I started implementing this week I've recognized how I'm pretty good in a couple of areas I'm doing maybe maybe better than pretty well in one area but that I'm doing it is more poorly in a few areas that I just wasn't aware of and so I've already started taking on ways to adjust that over time and I'll keep people posted select from and I already know the four or five that I started implementing this week I've recognized how I'm pretty good in a couple of areas I'm doing maybe maybe better than pretty well in one area but that I'm doing it is more poorly in a few areas that I just wasn't aware of and so I've already started taking on ways to adjust that over time and I'll keep people posted so that first episode was absolutely incredible and it just provides so much actionable knowledge and the rationale behind it the second episode you educated us about strength speed and hypertrophy training and there too an immense amount of incredible knowledge we got way down into the details you explained sets reps the rationale for sets reps rest cadence number of workouts per week I'm definitely going to take away my need to do some speed based training and some power based so that first episode was absolutely incredible and it just provides so much actionable knowledge and the rationale behind it the second episode you educated us about strength speed and hypertrophy training and there too an immense amount of incredible knowledge we got way down into the details you explained sets reps the rationale for sets reps rest cadence number of workouts per week I'm definitely going to take away my need to do some speed based training and some power based training normally I think in terms of strength or hypertrophy and I'm relieved to learn that a lot of the speed and power based training it's low intensity enough that it can be done fairly often and incorporated into my program which already touches on strength and hypertrophy and indeed some endurance work as well so amazing tips that you provided there I'm certainly going to implement the three to five program that you describe three to five exercises done for three to five repetitions training normally I think in terms of strength or hypertrophy and I'm relieved to learn that a lot of the speed and power based training it's low intensity enough that it can be done fairly often and incorporated into my program which already touches on strength and hypertrophy and indeed some endurance work as well so amazing tips that you provided there I'm certainly going to implement the three to five program that you describe three to five exercises done for three to five repetitions three to five minutes between sets you're doing this three to five times per week and so on and so forth all the details again timestamped in the strength and hypertrophy episode show note so just incredible believe and use that to set up PR with you this week that's right I did PR this week thanks thanks to your input and following that program and I'm really grateful for that it does feel good to break through a barrier and I intend to break through more barriers but not just with strength three to five minutes between sets you're doing this three to five times per week and so on and so forth all the details again timestamped in the strength and hypertrophy episode show note so just incredible believe and use that to set up PR with you this week that's right I did PR this week thanks thanks to your input and following that program and I'm really grateful for that it does feel good to break through a barrier and I intend to break through more barriers but not just with strength and hypertrophy because episode three you taught us all about endurance the four different forms of endurance how to train for each of those different forms the value of doing even very brief 20-second sprints or bouts of jumping jacks throughout the day which to some people might just sound like a you know like a little hack or gimmick but no these are actually tapping into fuel systems and modes of neuromuscular interactions that greatly aid other forms of endurance like long duration and hypertrophy because episode three you taught us all about endurance the four different forms of endurance how to train for each of those different forms the value of doing even very brief 20-second sprints or bouts of jumping jacks throughout the day which to some people might just sound like a you know like a little hack or gimmick but no these are actually tapping into fuel systems and modes of neuromuscular interactions that greatly aid other forms of endurance like long duration endurance I would love to return to my high school mile time I won't reveal what that is because this is not really about me but I plan to start doing if not mile repeats then doing some mile mile runs and testing there once a week you laid out a beautiful program for how to do that and then in the next episode you wowed us again with a description of the science and the tools and endurance I would love to return to my high school mile time I won't reveal what that is because this is not really about me but I plan to start doing if not mile repeats then doing some mile mile runs and testing there once a week you laid out a beautiful program for how to do that and then in the next episode you wowed us again with a description of the science and the tools and right down to the details but all laid out very cleanly and clearly as to how to design an optimal fitness program what are the things that really represent an optimal program what questions does one have to answer before designing a program what are some of the barriers in the way this concept of defenders as things that prevent you from reaching your goals and one of the key things I have it right here in front of me that I took away from that episode was this quadrant right down to the details but all laid out very cleanly and clearly as to how to design an optimal fitness program what are the things that really represent an optimal program what questions does one have to answer before designing a program what are some of the barriers in the way this concept of defenders as things that prevent you from reaching your goals and one of the key things I have it right here in front of me that I took away from that episode was this quadrant approach of really thinking about and figuring out how much one intends to devote to work career calling let's make that one bin relationships another bin fitness in the other bin and recovery in the other bin and here we'll tip our hats are our good friend Kenny Kane for mentioning that overall scheme for doing things it's been immensely useful and I've actually charted it out and approach of really thinking about and figuring out how much one intends to devote to work career calling let's make that one bin relationships another bin fitness in the other bin and recovery in the other bin and here we'll tip our hats are our good friend Kenny Kane for mentioning that overall scheme for doing things it's been immensely useful and I've actually charted it out and thought about and drawn out which different things fall into each of these categories you might think it's obvious okay relationships but that includes a lot of different things and there's crossover between these bins in terms of how you can combine enhancing relationships with fitness work recovery and so on so that episode is just again a treasure trove of knowledge and then in the next episode you you educated us on recovery in all its forms in the very short term in within the thought about and drawn out which different things fall into each of these categories you might think it's obvious okay relationships but that includes a lot of different things and there's crossover between these bins in terms of how you can combine enhancing relationships with fitness work recovery and so on so that episode is just again a treasure trove of knowledge and then in the next episode you you educated us on recovery in all its forms in the very short term in within the workout immediately after the workout and from workout to workout ways to really accelerate recovery assess recovery and as you pointed out for people like me who always assume that we don't recover very well and that's some sort of character trait or nervous system thing or genetic to really think about how my training is impacting my level of recovery and in doing so is revealed to me that I have far more capacity than I thought I had and already this week I've managed to train more workout immediately after the workout and from workout to workout ways to really accelerate recovery assess recovery and as you pointed out for people like me who always assume that we don't recover very well and that's some sort of character trait or nervous system thing or genetic to really think about how my training is impacting my level of recovery and in doing so is revealed to me that I have far more capacity than I thought I had and already this week I've managed to train more often doing more work and I feel better than ever and that's also despite the fact that we've spent a fair amount of time in these chairs across from one another. It's a kind of way to say it. Well it's been a pleasure and then in today's episode you explained nutrition and supplementation as it relates to performance and of course that touches into recovery but also optimal mental often doing more work and I feel better than ever and that's also despite the fact that we've spent a fair amount of time in these chairs across from one another. It's a kind of way to say it. Well it's been a pleasure and then in today's episode you explained nutrition and supplementation as it relates to performance and of course that touches into recovery but also optimal mental states for training. How to approach one's training and how to extract the most from training through quality nutrition? So what to eat and when, which carbohydrates protein amounts, windows of opportunity, windows you absolutely don't want to miss and then some that are a bit more flexible and then we went deep into the weeds of magnesium, garlic, tertiary extract, alpha GPC, we touched on neural transmitter related systems, hormone related systems, we went deep into states for training. How to approach one's training and how to extract the most from training through quality nutrition? So what to eat and when, which carbohydrates protein amounts, windows of opportunity, windows you absolutely don't want to miss and then some that are a bit more flexible and then we went deep into the weeds of magnesium, garlic, tertiary extract, alpha GPC, we touched on neural transmitter related systems, hormone related systems, we went deep into a discussion about sleep because of course sleep is the foundation for recovering performance of all kinds, emotional, mental, and physical recovery and performance and in taking us through this enormous arc of a journey through fitness, I think it's fair to say that you've given us your knowledge containing your head. I was telling someone just the other day that one of the things that I always lamented in science is that I would encounter these incredible professors and a discussion about sleep because of course sleep is the foundation for recovering performance of all kinds, emotional, mental, and physical recovery and performance and in taking us through this enormous arc of a journey through fitness, I think it's fair to say that you've given us your knowledge containing your head. I was telling someone just the other day that one of the things that I always lamented in science is that I would encounter these incredible professors and scientists and in other domains of life too and you just wish there was some way to download their brain because they had so much knowledge inside them and I'm looking for a USB or USB-C port on you and I don't see one yet but what you've effectively done for us across these six episodes is to download the actionable knowledge and you know it's wonderful the information you've provided is clear, it's super interesting, it's highly, highly actionable and in many cases it's counterintuitive scientists and in other domains of life too and you just wish there was some way to download their brain because they had so much knowledge inside them and I'm looking for a USB or USB-C port on you and I don't see one yet but what you've effectively done for us across these six episodes is to download the actionable knowledge and you know it's wonderful the information you've provided is clear, it's super interesting, it's highly, highly actionable and in many cases it's counterintuitive and surprising but once one understands the logic behind it as you've provided for us also then it all makes sense in a way that's extremely satisfying and extremely motivating so it's certainly motivating me to change the way that I train in a number of ways and I promise that I'll report back to our audience and to you as to what my results are but really as we both agree this is not about me, this is not about you, this is really about the people listening and so for those and surprising but once one understands the logic behind it as you've provided for us also then it all makes sense in a way that's extremely satisfying and extremely motivating so it's certainly motivating me to change the way that I train in a number of ways and I promise that I'll report back to our audience and to you as to what my results are but really as we both agree this is not about me, this is not about you, this is really about the people listening and so for those of you listening I hope you can appreciate what an incredible gift it is to have somebody of Dr. Andy Galpins experience and drive and scholarly background who also works with athletes and everyday people just to display out all this knowledge for us systematically over six episodes Dr. Andy Galpins thank you ever so much I appreciate that far too kind of words to me, of you listening I hope you can appreciate what an incredible gift it is to have somebody of Dr. Andy Galpins experience and drive and scholarly background who also works with athletes and everyday people just to display out all this knowledge for us systematically over six episodes Dr. Andy Galpins thank you ever so much I appreciate that far too kind of words to me, if you've been following along through this entire journey as you called it, you know I like first principles thinking and I like lists so I'm going to get you with one more list and I got five things on this final list get your pen and pat out please, number one I want to really emphasize science itself is a verb which means it's ongoing and changing I did my best over the course of these many many many hours to provide my interpretation of the if you've been following along through this entire journey as you called it, you know I like first principles thinking and I like lists so I'm going to get you with one more list and I got five things on this final list get your pen and pat out please, number one I want to really emphasize science itself is a verb which means it's ongoing and changing I did my best over the course of these many many many hours to provide my interpretation of the science to provide my practical knowledge and things that I use but that's fallible science changes there are many many things in my career that I was very sure the that the evidence was clear on and then it changed so as you move forward do not think of any of the recommendations I gave you whether they were about supplement dosages and timing rep ranges or breathing tactics anything science to provide my practical knowledge and things that I use but that's fallible science changes there are many many things in my career that I was very sure the that the evidence was clear on and then it changed so as you move forward do not think of any of the recommendations I gave you whether they were about supplement dosages and timing rep ranges or breathing tactics anything in between just use them as guidelines so number one science is a verb number two I really want to think the audience this has been an extremely long haul as some of you have somehow I'm sure which I'm not sure how but some of you have probably made it through this entire journey and listened to all six episodes and you should probably get some sort of free human lab shirt or in between just use them as guidelines so number one science is a verb number two I really want to think the audience this has been an extremely long haul as some of you have somehow I'm sure which I'm not sure how but some of you have probably made it through this entire journey and listened to all six episodes and you should probably get some sort of free human lab shirt or or a plaque or I don't know how about a galvan plaque a galvan plaque how about a internet high five and even if you just dropped in for a few of the episodes you know I appreciate you taking the time there's a lot of things you could be doing with your time and to make to spend those resources on my words is touching number three I want to actually thank you of course Andrew and the whole or a plaque or I don't know how about a galvan plaque a galvan plaque how about a internet high five and even if you just dropped in for a few of the episodes you know I appreciate you taking the time there's a lot of things you could be doing with your time and to make to spend those resources on my words is touching number three I want to actually thank you of course Andrew and the whole team and the crew up here for three things number one I think it's incredibly important that you have gone out of your way to give other people credit for their work you go out of your way and your large platforms associated to tag people to give scientists credit for their work and most people do not do that and that's something you don't have to do and I think that is a culture you know I know why you do it you come from science that's just what you do you get people credit for their work team and the crew up here for three things number one I think it's incredibly important that you have gone out of your way to give other people credit for their work you go out of your way and your large platforms associated to tag people to give scientists credit for their work and most people do not do that and that's something you don't have to do and I think that is a culture you know I know why you do it you come from science that's just what you do you get people credit for their work but you go out of your way to do that and so I want to thank you for that the next one is many people who have outlets and platforms will try to fill those with people who are going to grow their platforms it doesn't mean these people are wrong or bad but I think what's extremely special about what you've created here is again you have gone out of your way to bring on the direct source of information I can't even imagine how many of your podcasts guests have never been on but you go out of your way to do that and so I want to thank you for that the next one is many people who have outlets and platforms will try to fill those with people who are going to grow their platforms it doesn't mean these people are wrong or bad but I think what's extremely special about what you've created here is again you have gone out of your way to bring on the direct source of information I can't even imagine how many of your podcasts guests have never been on a podcast before or it's been on a very short number of them and you've made an extremely large platform doing nothing but talking about super deep dork science directly from the sciences themselves and to create a community like that it's I'm so happy that science is made here and you show in the world people aren't stupid people want detail and people want science and you've given a podcast before or it's been on a very short number of them and you've made an extremely large platform doing nothing but talking about super deep dork science directly from the sciences themselves and to create a community like that it's I'm so happy that science is made here and you show in the world people aren't stupid people want detail and people want science and you've given them and the last one of course let's see if I get through this is thank you for what you've done for me and my career I understand there could have been any number of people in this chair to put me on your your platform once was incredibly gracious but to do it for 600 hours what if we did in this series is I can't thank you enough for that opportunity so I hope I lived them and the last one of course let's see if I get through this is thank you for what you've done for me and my career I understand there could have been any number of people in this chair to put me on your your platform once was incredibly gracious but to do it for 600 hours what if we did in this series is I can't thank you enough for that opportunity so I hope I lived up to it and I had a tremendous time and thank you for being such a gracious host you more than exceeded expectations you are absolutely the person to be in this chair talking about these topics with me and for the world and once again I just want to say thank you as a colleague as a public educator as an exercise scientist and as a friend if you're learning from Endor up to it and I had a tremendous time and thank you for being such a gracious host you more than exceeded expectations you are absolutely the person to be in this chair talking about these topics with me and for the world and once again I just want to say thank you as a colleague as a public educator as an exercise scientist and as a friend if you're learning from Endor enjoying this podcast please subscribe to our YouTube channel that's a terrific zero cost way to support us in addition please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple you can leave us up to a five star review if you have questions for us or comments or suggestions about topics you'd like us to cover or guess you'd like me to include on the Hubert Minlab podcast please put those in the comments section on YouTube we do read all the comments please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and during today's episode that's the enjoying this podcast please subscribe to our YouTube channel that's a terrific zero cost way to support us in addition please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple you can leave us up to a five star review if you have questions for us or comments or suggestions about topics you'd like us to cover or guess you'd like me to include on the Hubert Minlab podcast please put those in the comments section on YouTube we do read all the comments please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and during today's episode that's the best way to support this podcast I'd also like to inform you about the Hubert Minlab podcast free newsletter it's called the neural network newsletter and each month the neural network newsletter is sent out and it contains summaries of podcast episodes specific protocols discussed on the Hubert Minlab podcast all in fairly concise format and all completely zero cost you can sign up for the neural network newsletter by going to Hubert Minlab.com go to the menu and click on newsletter you provide best way to support this podcast I'd also like to inform you about the Hubert Minlab podcast free newsletter it's called the neural network newsletter and each month the neural network newsletter is sent out and it contains summaries of podcast episodes specific protocols discussed on the Hubert Minlab podcast all in fairly concise format and all completely zero cost you can sign up for the neural network newsletter by going to Hubert Minlab.com go to the menu and click on newsletter you provide us your email we do not share it with anybody and as I mentioned before it's completely zero cost by going to Hubert Minlab.com you can also go into the menu tab and go to newsletter and see some example newsletters from months past thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion about fitness exercise and performance with Dr. Andy Galpin and as always thank you for your interest in science us your email we do not share it with anybody and as I mentioned before it's completely zero cost by going to Hubert Minlab.com you can also go into the menu tab and go to newsletter and see some example newsletters from months past thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion about fitness exercise and performance with Dr. Andy Galpin and as always thank you for your interest in science
