Tim Dodd: SpaceX, Starship, Rocket Engines, and Future of Space Travel | Lex Fridman Podcast #356
And the nozzle, so as you're saying, there's a bunch of different design options, but it's a critical part of this. Yeah. How you do that conversion, which basically, like, how much can you convert is really like the ultimate game? How much pressure and heat can we convert into thrust? Like, that's really at the end of the day. That's what a rocket engine is. The following is a conversation with Tim Dodd, host of the everyday astronaut YouTube channel, where he educates and inspires all of us with detailed but accessible explanations of rocket engines and all things space travel. This is Alex Readman podcast to support it. Please check out our sponsors in the description. And now, dear friends, here's Tim Dodd. Can you give a brief history of SpaceX rockets? So we got Falcon 1, Falcon 9. There's different versions of those, Falcon Heavy. Starship and also the Dragon Cousins and so on. Well, Falcon 1 is where it all started. The original intent and the original idea of SpaceX was Elon wanted to try to get something to Mars. You know, he saw that NASA didn't have a current Mars plan, and he wanted to go to Mars. So he decided how do I best do this? He literally wanted to at first purchase a rocket from Russia. Then on the after a foil attempt at doing that, he decided he was going to try to develop his own rocket. And the Falcon 1 is what came out of that process. And he developed a pretty incredible team. I don't know how exactly he stumbled upon the team that he stumbled upon that quickly, but the people that he assembled were amazing. And they built the Falcon 1, which was a single Merlin engine, followed by an upper stage engine called the Kestrel engine. Pretty small compared to the things they're working on today, but that Merlin engine continued to evolve into being the power plant for the Falcon 9. They went from a smaller launch vehicle up into the medium-class launch vehicle, so they could provide services for NASA. That's one of the big things they first kind of hung their hat up, was they got the opportunity to fly cargo to the International Space Station under originally called the COTS program, the commercial orbital transportation services for NASA, which evolved into the commercial resupply contracts. And that's when SpaceX developed both their Dragon capsule, which is an uncrewed at first spacecraft that conducts the ISS, and the Falcon 9 rocket that can take it to the International Space Station. And then the Dragon rides on the thing up top, that rides on the big booster thing that launches it into orbit. Exactly. The Falcon 9's the semi-truck, the Dragon capsules, the payload. You know, it's the thing being dropped off basically at an assassination. And in this case, the destination is the International Space Station. And yeah, so they developed those relatively quickly, and it became a commercial success before you know it. They're now the number one launch provider in the world, launching more masks to orbit than anybody else, launching more frequently than countries. The entire country of China who's going crazy right now with launches, granted China beat them by two launches this last in 2022, but prior year SpaceX beat the entire country of China. I mean, it's not. And just like you said, SpaceX still beats China even this year in terms of the amount of payload those. So all the masks that orbit, right, that China had like 60 something, a couple more launches, but the there was just like small cubes at type of launches. Exactly. Some of them are literally like 100 kilograms or something. You know, like not not large payloads. So SpaceX customers are different and different. So whoever wants to send payloads up into space. Yes, but right now their biggest customer is actually themselves with Starlink. With Starlink. One of the biggest reasons they've launched so much mask or biz because Starlink has designed around the payload fairing and the payload capabilities of the Falcon 9 rocket. So you know, because they're vertically integrated, because they build their own satellites, because they're building their own rocket, they can literally design a system that's, you know, another manufacturer might have made a more square satellite that was heavier or something. But SpaceX looked at it from a blank slate and said, here's our constraints. Our payload masks constraints are volume constraints. And they made a funky look and satellite. Things like the size of a, you know, it's like a table folded up, which isn't anything I've, you know, where they've ever seen before. So, but it's purpose built to fit as efficiently as possible inside their fairing and inside the capabilities of that rocket. So therefore, because they're launching those like an insane amount, you know, a dozen, you know, 40, 50 times a year or whatever, they're, they're just putting up insane amounts of masks, like we've never seen before. What about the different versions of Falcon 9, people show a link around them? What are some interesting memories to you of the different developments in Falcon 9? The very first Falcon 9s had a square array of engines. I had like a three by three grid of their Merlin one engines, the one Ds. And I think it only lasted, I don't remember if it was two or four flights before they went into this octoode configuration where there's eight, like a ring of eight engines with a center engine in the middle. Still in the same diameter, the rocket was, the fuselage was more or less the same, 3.7 meter wide diameter, but the actual thrust structure changed. And one of the big efficiency gains was, you no longer have, you know, a corner engine, and then like an edge engine, and then another corner engine, you can just make eight of the same, you know, kind of part of the octoweb, it's called, you know, the same shape. And then your interchangeability and your manufacturer ability becomes a lot simpler. So that was kind of one of the bigger upgrades at first, and they kept stretching it. Every time they like touched this thing, they got longer and like, or taller and taller technically. And then the next big feature that you saw in 2014 would have been they added landing legs to a Falcon 9 rocket, which was, I was at, that was the first launch everyone too, was actually to see, you know, CRS-3, so commercial resupply mission three, and it was probably their, God, I don't remember what that was like, they're 14th or 15th launch or something, like pretty early on. And people were literally laughing at the idea of them putting landing legs on it. They just thought it was stupid, they're like, why are they wasting, why is this billionaire Elon Musk guy wasting his time trying to land a rocket? It's not gonna work. So you said the Mars plan was there in the beginning, what about the reusability of rockets? Was that there in the beginning? I think reusability definitely, you know, it's a necessary part of making any kind of inner planetary mission, you know, in order to actually do that, just financially, you have to start reusing these things. In terms of the development of the Falcon 1 and Falcon 9, how early on did the goal of reusing the rocket, having the rocket actually land? How early did that goal creep in? I can't speak for Elon and SpaceX, but it was pretty immediate that they wanted to try to recover in it. As a matter of fact, I think the very first two Falcon 9 rockets and Falcon 1, I think they even wanted to try to recover using parachutes to recover the first stage. And now fast forward, you know, almost 20 years later and rocket labs actually doing a concept like that where they're pulling a parachute after the first stage is reentering and they actually are trying to recover it with the helicopters, gonna try to snatch it out of the air. They've actually done it. They've actually done it successfully once. How does the helicopter grab the rocket? With this giant like drag line and a hook. Oh, and then it literally just like grabs, snags onto the parachute. Wow. And it's pretty amazing. But this is a small rocket. Their rocket's only about a metric ton. The booster is empty. So the rocket releases parachutes, yep, like really high up. I would love to see this. Yeah, there's an interesting idea. There's so many interesting ideas and possibilities like SpaceX basically just innovated a lot of different weird ideas just in the pursuit of making things more efficient, reusable, all of that. So basically thinking from first principles, how to solve this problem. And so what you find is like you'll get all these kind of crazy kind of solutions. And with SpaceX, they weren't even getting to the point of the booster surviving reentry long enough to build a pole of parachutes. Yeah. You know, their mass fractions, you know, and in that various, every single rocket's different. And all the, you know, for instance, rocket lab uses carbon composite fuselage and tanks or, you know, same thing. And that's very, very lightweight. Has really good mass fractions. And therefore their drag co-affidants and things like that. They were able to survive reentry of the first stage, which is something that SpaceX wasn't able to do at the time. What's, what the, kind of the big, I think, breakthrough for SpaceX with reusing the booster is they, they realized we have to basically slow down before we hit the atmosphere. So they actually do what they used to call a reentry burn, which I still think is the correct term, because it is reentering the atmosphere. But now they call it the entry burn. And they light up three of the nine Merlin engines, not only to slow it down, but actually even while those engines are firing, it creates like a literal like force field as it's falling through the, through the atmosphere. Interesting. And, but it also decreases the velocity by almost half, or around half. And then that therefore decreases the amount of, you know, the biggest thing with the atmosphere is that it, as it gets compressed against the front of anything flying through the atmosphere, the compressed atoms just get hot. And they can get so hot they turn into a plasma, and they get so hot they can just absolutely destroy anything. So they slow down enough that the air molecules don't end up, you know, destroying the vehicle on reentry. And then they, then they realize, I think at some point, it's probably a similar crossover. They're like, well, for lighting the engines already to slow down in the atmosphere, we can just use that same engine to land. And so like, well, what if we just stuck landing legs on it and just landed the thing vertically? And next thing you know, is December 21st, 2015, they did exactly that for the first time. They landed. So you were there before that then, right? Yeah, yeah. In 2014. Early 2014. So that, and for me, that was so fun watching, you know, that was like the peak of me just becoming obsessed with, with this idea. I'm watching it with, like in back in the day, it was like months between launches, you know, so all launch was like a big idea. I'd wake up at 3 a.m. to watch this landing attempt or whatever, you know, and every, you know, there's CRS 4, almost, almost landed, CRS 5, almost landed, CRS 6, CRS 7 blew up. I was watching that on, I think it was like a Saturday morning or maybe a Sunday morning. And I remember watching that and watched it blow up. And I was like, oh my God, now what, you know, and it blew up on a cent. It was their first failure. So is there 18th flight of believe? CRS 7, the upper stage had a, one of the bottles inside the tanks that are filled with helium and one of those bottles broke off on a cent and actually just completely over pressured the, the upper stage and the upper stage blew up and the whole rocket went kaboom. And a non-controlled manner. And so then they came back with vengeance. When they came back, the first mission back is the first time that they landed a rocket, which was awesome. So the return to flight after the anomaly was, was, yeah, was landing a rocket and stuck the landing. Yep, well, actually the first time. So the first time you were there, what was that like? What do you remember from that day? Just, I was surprised at how much bigger the rocket was than I imagined. I was, I originally, when I was going down to Kennedy Space Center, I was disappointed that I wasn't seeing like a, you know, I didn't know a ton of rockets. I knew enough to like know what a space shuttle was, what like the Saturn V was, you know, but that was probably about the end of my knowledge. I just remember being disappointed that I wasn't seeing a big, quote unquote, NASA rocket flying. You know, I was thinking in my head, like, oh, I'm going to see this launch. It's probably going to be like, you know, three stories tall or something, you know, just some little skinny little stick and some little firecracker and yay, you know, and I think I'd almost impede that too. I think the people that I was working for at the time, I think they kind of were downplaying it as like, well, it's not a big rocket, so it's not going to be that exciting, you know. But we get out there to the pad and I'm like, this thing's huge. This is not a small rocket. Like this is, you know, it's 70 meters tall, 220 feet tall. It's huge. And I think people forget like the scale of that, you know, it might look skinny and tall and all this stuff, but it's still a very, very large piece of machinery. It's physically about as large as you can ship, the boosters about as big as you can ship across the country period without like, completely shutting down highways. You know, it is made within those exact specifications of like having, you know, lane privileges and bridges and everything. It's all feet wide, 3.7 meters wide, and it's 45 meters long. So it's like exactly what you can fit with a pretty standard, you know, like before you start getting to crazy amounts of problems shipping the rocket. And it's huge. It's huge. And people just don't understand that. And so when I saw with my own eyes, I remember just being like, this is so much cooler than I thought. It's hard to believe that that thing is going to have to lift off the ground and launch up into the air. Maybe that's the most humbling aspect of it. That's something that size. Humans have come up with a way to take something that size and launching it, launch it up into the air. Yeah, there's certainly a very humbling aspect when you watch it actually leave. Was there a sound to it? Was there like a feeling? What are the different experiences you first remember? Well, ironically, I didn't end up getting to see that one fly. Oh, I went home. My camera saw it. I left my camera out there. Like a remote triggered camera. My first image as a launch photographer at the time was it was CRS 3, but I went home. It scrubbed too many times. This is back in the day they were scrubbing like often and they'd be like a three day, five day, seven day. You just never knew. So I go home and I watch the livestream of it. So I didn't even get experience my first launch. And anyone that's ever tried to go to a launch is can probably empathize because yeah, scrubs are very common in the space flight world. So that one I didn't get to see. But since then obviously I've been able to attend very many launches. How much do you understand the control involved in the landing? How difficult is that problem? I couldn't tell you a single thing about like the code and like the avionics behind it, but I can tell you all the hardware that makes it happen if that helps. Well, that, I mean to me, it seems like whenever I talk to people they say it's not that big of a deal in terms of the level of intelligence in the control. But to me, it's just like when you observe it, it seems incredible. Because all the variables involved, although uncertainties involved, all the, because there's aerodynamics, I mean, there's different temperatures. There's so much going on with the fuel, the burning, the combustion, just everything that's going on to be able to do perform control at such high stakes effectively. Like, you know, that code is probably not written in JavaScript, I guess is what I'm saying. Actually, no, I don't, if I remember, again, this is well outside of my domain. But they're coding in a common language. It's probably going to be C. Yeah, I'm pretty sure it is. And that was one of the things that was weird, is that Elon, when he started SpaceX, we're just going to code in the most common language so that we don't have to have people learn this archaic, weird thing. And we can just literally pull people off the streets and be like, here, right it, you know? And that's probably C++. I mean, maybe Epic feels like Python or something. But I think reliable systems have to be written in C++, probably, which is a common language, which is something I imagine NASA engineers would probably have to use some kind of proprietary language in the olden days for security, for privacy, all that kind of stuff. And the old old days, they were inventing code in language from scratch. For sure. It was still, it's still incredible that it's able to do that. Just the feet of engineering involved is truly, it's like one of the marvels to observe about these rockets coming back to Earth, that they're able to land like the drama of it is just incredible to see. Yeah, well, one of the fun things to remember too, with specifically with the Falcon 9 and the Falcon Heavy boosters, I mean, it's the same thing basically. They shut down all but one of the nine engines. And even with that one engine at its minimum throttle setting, it's still too much thrust to hover. So as this rocket's coming down, if they start a little bit too early, if they light that engine too early, it will actually stop above the ground and will not be able to lower itself. It will literally stop, like say, say, it's stopped 200 feet above the ground, there are only options to kill the engine and then it's just gonna fall at 200 feet. So what we call like a suicide burner, a hover slam, kind of interchangeable terms, because your thrust to weight ratio is never below one. So they have to actually literally be riding the throttle. So what you do is you kind of start, ideally, you kind of start like in the middle of your window of throttle range. So let's pretend your engine can throttle down to 40% of its maximum rated thrust. You might start at like 70% of thrust in the middle of that window of where it could be running. So if all of a sudden it's kind of coming into hot, you have room to throttle up. If you're coming into, you're actually, you know, a little too early, you throttle it down. You have a little bit of wiggle room. And it's just amazing how smoothly and how perfectly they're able to still control that thing, even though they're down to one engine out of the nine, and they're still riding like the finest margin of what's possible. They're continually playing with that to try to get it, because every bit of fuel they're using and proponent they're using to land is proponent, they weren't using to put something into space. Yeah. So they want that to be as efficient as possible. So they're really like watching them hone that in and just continue to evolve and edit that and just get it to be the workhorse. We're coming up on 100 consecutive landings. Perfect landings, 100. I think they've done like 150 something landings altogether, 160 altogether. But we're talking like in a row without blowing up, which at the five years ago was completely experimental and insane. And now we're coming up to the point where 100 in a row, it's like this is becoming more reliable in the landing, which is not the primary mission. This is purely for SpaceX's like gain is to recover the booster. It has nothing to do with the effect of getting the payload on orbit, you know, most of the time. And the landing is really only for their benefit and their gain. Long term gain. Like it's a long term investment in being able to recover the boosters. 100. Can you believe all this was done basically 10 years? So that we've seen this development in over a period of 10 years? Oh, man. So like where we started commercial space light at scale to today, where it's almost starting to be mundane. Yeah. That's how good I think I'm able to do. Yeah. I can't really believe it. I mean, obviously, even just in the, I think I'm a fairly fair weather fan really didn't start paying attention to like 2014. Yeah. Just seeing what it was like back then to what it's like, like I don't watch every launch at all anymore. Like I'll catch the big ones. I'll stream some of the really big ones. But like back in the day, I like I said, would wake up in the middle of the night to catch these streams or catch these launches and watch them because they were such a big deal. And there's maybe only five of them a year, you know, and so it was a really big deal. Nowadays it's like, oh yeah, there's literally like two week on average now. It's insane. From SpaceX alone, let alone, you know, United Launch Alliance Rocket Lab, any of the Chinese missions, you know, I mean, all of this countless, it's insane. It's hard to really, really, really hard to keep up with. I want to at which point in the future, the number of launches to orbit will exceed the number of launches of airplanes like on the surface of Earth. Yeah, I think, I kind of have a hard time extrapolating out that far. You know, there's a lot of people that are like big futurists and really do think about like interplanetary stuff and think about colonizing Mars and stuff. I have a hard time predicting like, when Starship's gonna fly, the orbital launch, you know, and that's like, imminentish, like month or two scale timeframe and yet I'm still like, I can't tell you when that's gonna, I can't tell you anything about like, when we're gonna land on Mars or what that's, what that economy and what that, you know, the scale of launch operations is gonna look like in order to do that because it's just so hard to, I wouldn't have predicted, we're at today, five years ago, you know, it's insane. It's so hard to predict and yeah, but it's funny because there's so many like new companies starting up trying to predict that and it's a really exciting, you know, start up culture. I think when you make certain engineering decisions and hiring decisions and like what you focus on in terms of both business and engineering, it's good to think on the scale of 10, 20, 50, 100 years. This is one of the things that Elon has exceptionally good at, which is asking the question, okay, this might seem impossible right now, but what's the obvious way to do this if we look out 20 years? And then you start to make decisions, you start to make decisions about robotics, about brain computing interfaces, about space travel there, they make a lot of sense when you look at the scale of 10, 20, 50, 100 years and don't make any sense if you look at the scale of just months. So, but of course, the actual work of day to day is focused on the next few months because there's deadlines, there's missions, they have to accomplish. Anyway, we're turning back to the brief history of space rockets. The Falcon Heavy. So what else is there? So we talked about Falcon 9 and the rapid development there with other flavors of Falcon is there and how does that take us to Starship? Yeah, realistically, the Falcon 9 evolved more or less kind of like just got more powerful and a little bit longer and more capable. But nowadays they fly, it was called the Block 5, even though it's like the eighth or ninth iteration of the Falcon 9, but they call it Block 5, it's someone that has the Black Landing Legs, the Black Inter stage. They have a fleet of roughly 10 or so that are doing the majority of the leg work these days and they're flying up to 15 times, I think, right now as the current booster leader. They're also recovering the fairing so the nose cone of the rockets are frequently, if not every time being recovered. Same with the booster for the most part and the only thing being expended is the upper stage and that's kind of where the Falcon 9 is ending. It's really doesn't make sense to develop that infrastructure any longer. So they went with the next step, which is go even bigger physically. So they have more margin for upper stage reusability and that's what we see with Starship and Super Heavy. So the Super Heavy Booster, the whole system is confusing, the whole system's kind of considered Starship, but technically the Starship is just the upper stage which is also like the spaceship, which is also the upper stage and then the booster itself is considered the Super Heavy Booster. And that's what they've been working on. Publicly it came out in 2016 as the time was the ITS, the interplanetary transportation system. Later, and I think about 20, by the end of that year, 2017 it kind of became known as the BFR, the big Falcon rocket. Yes. Yeah. And then I think it was about end of 2018 they started calling it Starship. But that is the, that is where we're at today and that's what they're working full steam head on. And what about Dragon? We mentioned Dragon, Crew Dragon, Cargo Dragon. Yeah. So they went from the cargo version of Dragon, that flew about 20 times, successfully to the International Space Station, except for that one CRS-7 where the rocket blew up and the capsule obviously didn't make it to the ISS. Then they went into the Dragon II, which has two variants, it has a crew variant. So we just call crew Dragon. And then there's the cargo version of Dragon II. And that's just an updated sleeker, sexier version of Dragon. And ironically, it's heavier altogether. So you'll never see those cool return to launch site landing, the boosters coming back to land for CRS missions anymore like we used to. But they landed on the drone ship anyway. And yeah, that's been flying successfully. That's kind of the, so there's, yeah, Starlink Dragon, Falcon 9, Falcon Heavy, and Starship System. It's kind of the whole SpaceX world, really. In terms of the space ships involved. What do you, or some of the major milestones in that history? We kind of mentioned a few sticking the landing. Is there something that kind of stands out? Yeah, I would say definitely the big ones, obviously, like any of the first, like the first flight of Falcon 1, first flight of Falcon 9, first time they went to the International Space Station. The first time they landed a booster, the first time they reuse a booster, which is I think about six months after, no, it was a year after, it was SES 10. 2017, it was the first time they reused one of those boosters. And that was a big milestone. Like, can we even, yeah, we recovered one, we caught one. You know, it's like we got one now. What? That was the first time they re-flu one. Yeah, then flying humans was a huge one, DM2, Bob and Doug, for NASA. Bob and Doug, yeah. Bob and Doug, that was incredibly. That was a huge, huge step, I think, for SpaceX, was flying people. So it's first major commercial launching of humans out into space? Yeah. And not just into space, because there's been people that have done space flights with suborbital hops, but going into orbit, and especially docking and running with the International Space Station, it's a big deal, to whole. It until you really understand the physics involved and the scale involved with just crossing the carbon line, going straight up versus going into orbit, like they're just completely different things almost. What about Starship? Are we in a place where we can talk about milestones with Starship? Has there been, or has it just been an epic journey of failure and successes of testing and so on? Was there, like, yeah, what would you classify at this point as a milestone, a Starship, a BFR, whatever the name is? I was able to achieve. Well, so far, the milestones we've seen, I'd say the first one would be the hop of, they call it Starhopper, and it's basically a very rudimentary rocket, but it was the first time they utilized their new Raptor engine to produce thrust to fly something. And first flew like, literally like three meters off the ground or something like tethered to the ground, then it flew like 15, and then finally, it flew 150 meters. And that was in 2019. And that was the first big milestone of Starship. And then after that, we saw SN5, SN6 kind of do the similar, like, 150 meter hops with a little bit more elegant systems, you know, proving out more of their tank building, proving out more of their, you know, a lot of just subsystems. And then the big ones physically were in end of 2020, in early 2021 when they flew the SN8, 9, 10, 11, and 15. What is the end of the SN4? Thank you, serial number or Starship number. Yeah, so SN, these are just names, numbers, numerical representations of the different testing efforts. They skipped some numbers, right? Yeah. If they scratch a test. Yeah, and last time did it be like literally, that they're building, you know, because at Starbase and it, what SpaceX is working on, like, the one foot is always in front of someone else's foot. And like, the arm is not knowing what the leg is doing sometimes. Yeah. They will have someone working on, you know, they'll just be like, hurry up and build 40 of these tank sections. And you build the bulkhead and you build the downcomer and you build the header tank blah, blah, blah. And almost like, oh, we actually evolved that. We don't use that header tank now. So it's going to go on to this one. So they'll have like parts of certain rockets built. And it's like, ah, literally scrap it. Like not scrap it like in the, you know, joke term, like literally just go scrap it. And they, so they, they just evolve and iterate so quickly. There were some epic explosions. I think Starship, something about it, probably just the amount of fuel just leads to some epic, epic failures. Yeah. Would you say Starship is the source of the most epic failures in terms of size of explosion? So you can literally measure in like a yield of explosive power, you know, like, like you could TNT. Like you can take a look at how much propellant is left over at the time of the explosion. And you know, Starship, what's flown so far, even though it's physically one of the largest flying objects ever, just with the upper stage alone, they've not filled it more than like 10 or 20% full of propellant. Yeah. And so it actually hasn't been that the failures have been really epic looking, big visual fireballs. But in terms of space flight, there's still pretty small explosions, believe it or not. They could still go bigger. Oh, yeah. A lot, a lot. And of course, the test payload of a Tesla Roaster was launched. I think at what year that was. Yeah, 2018. That was quite epic. Would you put that in the milestone? Oh, yeah, yeah. Falcon Heavy demo was like definitely a big, big, big milestone. Yeah. Is that funny to you that there's a Roaster floating out there? Do we know the location of that Roaster at this? Oh, yeah. Where is Roaster.com? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Where is it orbiting something? Yeah, it's orbiting the sun. It's orbiting the sun. It's orbiting the sun. And it's orbiting basically between the Earth's orbit and beyond Mars. So I think of like 2.5 AU of Firemum, right? So it's beyond Mars's orbit and its highest point and its back at Earth, kind of at its lowest point. I wonder if there's a mission where you're going to somehow connect with it once again and place extra things into it. I wonder how challenging that is technically. Oh, yeah. It could absolutely be done. The hard thing at this point, because it's on an eccentric orbit, would be rendezvousing with it because you kind of had to be in alignment with its orbit to really line up well with it. But yeah, I mean, someday I don't see any reason why we couldn't at least send for sure an uncrewed, you know, feel unwanted to just fly a robot out there to check up on it and photograph it or something. Like we could, that could be well within the realm of things. Get an optimist robot up there. So that was the story, brilliantly told by you of the rockets for SpaceX. What about through the lens of engines? Can you give a brief history of the SpaceX rocket engines that were used that we haven't covered? You mentioned all started with the Merlin engine and a customer engine. What they have through that lens? Yeah, what's there? Engines are relatively small number, which is easy for us. There's the other Merlin. And Merlin's evolved throughout time to be from like the Merlin to the Merlin one seat and Merlin one deed to the Merlin one D full thrust and all these other kind of tweaks of the same architecture. Kestrel and do with Falcon 1. They also have the Merlin vacuum engine, which is the upper stage engine for Falcon 9. Same relative system, but just optimized for vacuum. So it has a much larger bell nozzle. There's the Draco thrusters, which you know, kind of consider engines. Well, they are rocket engines, but they're just small. They're not like the orbital engines. There's the super Draco engines, which are the abort thrusters on crude ragging capsule. And then nowadays they have the Raptor engine and the Raptor vacuum variant. But they've already had two versions of Raptor. We've already seen kind of the Raptor development engine. We kind of see like a Raptor 1.5 where it's kind of taking hints of the future Raptor. But now we're well within the, well within what, you know, you'd consider a Raptor 2 variant. And that's really it. Yeah, for the Raptor. Maybe I'll ask you that separately. But I like in general, and people who doesn't know whoever the astronaut is. But if you don't somehow know, go, go, go, check as your YouTube channel out. You're an incredible educator about the super technical and the more sort of, even the philosophical, the actual like the actual space travel. So you go down to the raw details of it. And there's just great videos on the Raptor engine. I think you have one, I'm Roland, and also the actual tours with Elon, where he discusses some of those things. On one of the tours, he says, he's full of good lines that guy. He says something about the number of Fidley bits. And he's, the number of Fidley bits was decreased between Raptor 2 and Raptor 1. And I think that's actually a really beautiful representation of the engineering efforts there, which is constantly trying to simplify, increased the efficiency of the engines, but also simplify the design, so you can manufacture it. And in general, simplification leads to better performance and testing and everything. So the number of Fidley bits, sure, there's a Wikipedia page in that now, as an index, is actually a really good one. And when you think about it, I don't know of any other company prior that had kind of tried to measure their performance of their engine, not in like thrust to weight ratio or like how efficient it is, like in specific impulse, but literally in like dollar to thrust ratio, like how much does this engine cost? How much thrust can it produce? And like using that as a trade study, instead of just like pure metrics of, you know, because at the end of the day, like, OK, if it's cheaper and does, you know, X amount of work, even if it's less efficient, it can actually be better long term. And so I guess another way is not even just thrust. I don't know if that metric is used, but basically the cost of getting 1 kilogram of thing up into space. Yeah. That's basically what they're trying to minimize. Especially, yeah. At the end of the day, that is definitely the ultimate metric, is how much does 1 kilogram cost to orbit? Eventually, you know, but there's so funny, because spaceflight is just the ultimate, you know, it's the ultimate compromise. Every little thing, any variable can just change everything else. So you can tweak so many different things to get to different numbers and conclusions, you know, but even things like on your first stage, when you're the rocket's pointing straight up and the engines are pointing straight down, you're dealing more with the thrust-to-weight ratio of the rocket. So how much thrust is it producing versus how much is gravity pulling down on it? Is actually a more important metric than how raw, efficient the engine is. So it's funny. And then in space, it's kind of the opposite. thrust-to-weight ratio doesn't really matter. What really matters is the actual, the specific impulse is color like the nozzle escape velocity of the injection velocity of the, how fast is the gas moving? It's like the more important number on orbit, but it's just so crazy, because there's all these, like, I would just love to see the trade studies, you know, when you're like trying to figure out, like, is this more important than this or this or this? And it's like, you change this one little thing and all of a sudden, you know, like, all of everything changes. It's just, even the profile, like the launch profile, the trajectory of it, the, I mean, everything, everything. I wonder what that trade-out discussions are like, because you can't really perfectly plan everything. So, and you always have to have some spare leeway, especially as you're testing new vehicles, like starship. Yeah, so engines are important. Yeah, having a margin, giving all the uncertainty that's there. That's really interesting, like, how they do those kinds of trade-outs, because they're also rapidly designing and redesigning and re-engineering. And the, ultimately, you want to give yourself a freedom to constantly innovate, but then through the process of testing, you solidify the thing that can be relied upon, especially if it's a crude mission. Yeah. How to do that in a rapid cycle. I remember at some point, that NASA, as they're leading up to flying humans for the first time for NASA, you know, there's some talk that, like, we're gonna do a design freeze, because SpaceX does evolve and iterate so quickly. You know, they were saying that it was leading, because especially at the time, it was a mission called AMO6, and they lost a rocket. They won't lost two rockets, like, ever really, as far as, you know, trying to get something to space. For the Falcon 9, sorry. And the second one, AMO6, I mean, that was back in 2016, so it's been a long time. And, but at the time, you know, they're looking at flying humans in the near future. And it's like, if you guys keep tweaking this thing, every time we take it out to the pad, it's really gonna be a problem, you know? And so there is some pressure from NASA to kind of slow down on that iterative process. And, but that is also why they were able to evolve the Falcon 9 to be what it is today, is because they did just evolve it so quickly. Literally, like, one after another was never really the same. And we're definitely seeing that with Starship now. Like, it's evolved so quickly that you just can't even keep up with it, you know? So there's a fascinating culture clash there. Have you just in observing and interacting with NASA folks seen them sort of grow and change and evolve themselves sort of inspired by this new development and commercial spaceflight? Oh, yeah, yeah. There's a lot of, especially like around DM2, there's a lot of talks and the press conferences and stuff where you'd hear people say, you know, this was a big, this is well outside of our comfort zone to work with SpaceX in this manner, because we take this approach to things, we're X, Y, and Z in this way, the way we normally certify things. And we're not used to SpaceX like, well, let's just try it, you know, like, and do something, you know, to a point. And so they said it ended up being fantastic. They loved working that way because it was just less paperwork almost and more just do. And, but at the same time, SpaceX, I think, even expressed, I don't remember if it was Hans Kunigsman or someone in a press conference said, well, we really liked having someone just double-check us so that we're not doing something super stupid right before we test something, you know? So there was a cool collaboration because it is two very different philosophies of development and managing, you know, space programs. I wanted to talk to you a lot about engines and maybe about starship and maybe about your own becoming an actual astronaut, but like, let's just go there before all that and talk about the actual culture of SpaceX and your conversations with Elon, you've two SpaceX facilities with him, you've interviewed him, you've interacted with him. What had you learned about rockets, about propulsion, about engineering, about design, about life from those interactions? He's pretty transparent, open human being as an engineer, as a leader, as a person. I would definitely say the biggest takeaway I've had from my times with Elon at SpaceX is, really like the idea of questioner constraints, he says that a lot, but he also does it a lot. Like, he, though, you know, there'll be times where like, you'll see him change on a dime because he's like rethinking of something in a newer different way. And for me, you know, I think we all put constraints on ourselves, we think about our own limits, you know, on things that we can or cannot do. And I think it's made me kind of question like, well, why am I, why did I say no, I can't do that? Or, you know, just off the top of my head, a good example. So in Iowa, I live in Iowa, half the time or whatever it. There's a bike ride across the state of Iowa called Rag-Bri. And every year, you just, you know, like thousands of people get together and they ride across to Iowa. And it was the last summer, I met up with some friends and they're like, hey, you don't wanna go on Rag-Bri this year. I'm like, it's like a week away. They're like, yeah, you wanna go? I'm like, yeah. So I did, you go without, and it was one of those moments where I was proud of myself because it's like, it's easy to just be like, no, you know, I'm not ready or this is my constraint is like, I'm not in shape. But like, just question that, you know, and so I think when it comes down to questioning your own constraints, it's, yes, even to that level of like, why do you question yourself on what you can and cannot do? So that's for your personal life is really powerful, but a little bit more intuitive. I think what's really hard is to question constraints in a place like aeronautics or robotics or autonomous vehicles or vehicles because there's people, there's experts everywhere that have done it for decades. And everyone admires those experts and respects those experts and you, for you to step into a room, annoying not much more than just what's in a Wikipedia article. Yeah. And to just use your intuition and first principles thinking to disagree with the experts, that takes some guts, I think. Well, you can't have everyone doing that either. You know, like there has to be some humility of knowing that something is a hardened concept and a hardened, you know, like, especially, I'm not an engineer, I don't do this stuff, you know, but I can imagine you sitting there having spent six years on a type of valve that perfectly manages crowd-grip propellants or whatever. And someone walks in and says, why don't you just put a heater element in there? You know, or something, you know, something like, because we've probably, you know, we've done that 40 times or whatever, you know, like, I'm sure there are things like that that are very frustrating, but, but see, I don't know what that's like, you know. The thing is with the experts, they're always going to be frustrated when the newbie comes in with their first principles thinking. But sometimes that frustration is justified and sometimes it's not, sometimes it's just stubbornness for failing to acknowledge a better way. And I've seen it both directions, which is really interesting. You need both, but that tension's always going to be there. And there has to be almost like a dictatorial imperative that breaks through the expertise of the way things have been done in the past to push forward like a new way of doing it. And Elon's done that. I've seen a lot of great engineers do that. I say in the machine learning world, because it's been so much development, I've seen that happen. Usually when there's like rapid development that starts to come into play. And yeah, I've seen that autonomous vehicle space, bringing computer interfaces that Elon has evolved with, all of it. It's kind of fascinating to watch. What about the actual design and engineering of the engines that you've learned about so many different kinds of engines over the past few years? Just like what stands out to you about the way that engineering is done at SpaceX, or that Elon does engineering? The hardest thing to remember is how much stuff was developed in the 50s and 60s. The concepts finally being utilized today were already literally done in the 60s. So a lot of the things that SpaceX is doing isn't a novel concept per se. For instance, the Raptor engine utilizes the full flow stage combustion cycle engine. And that was already developed by the Soviets in the 60s for an engine called the RD270. And it makes sense. On paper, 100% it makes sense because you're basically extracting the absolute maximum potential of the chemical energy in both propellants. And at the end of the day, you had to be dumb enough to say, we're going to try using this thing, because it's actually really complicated to do what they're doing. But at the same time, so are rockets. Rocket engines are already stupid complicated. So adding 10%, 20% more pain in the butt during the R&D. If it's in the long, long, long, 20, 30 year existence or whatever future of that engine, is that going to be worth it? Obviously, SpaceX said, yeah, I think we can actually develop this Raptor engine. So it's just interesting to see the things that have been looked or even reusability. The space shuttle was reusable. It was fully the upper stage shuttle itself, the orbiter was, that thing was for all intents and purposes, a reusable rocket. Now that it live up to its expectations, not necessarily. So it left a lot of bad taste in people's mouth on the ideas of reusability. So for SpaceX to kind of come back into the room and on the table and say, we're going to use a reusable rocket. Specifically, we're going to do a fully reusable rocket. You know, a lot of people are even still the day. A lot of people going, yeah, you're not going to be able to do that. Even today. Even today? So long-term, you're not going to be able to reuse a scale. Yeah. But definitely, I think the number of people that are saying that today is a small portion of those that we're saying that type of thing five years ago. When Elon did that announcement in 2016 for the ITS, it was very, very aspirational. And people were just like, yeah, right. And there's a large number of people that had the factual reasons to think that and do that. At the time, they'd only landed like two rockets or something you know, when they did that or maybe three. It was a very small number. When they announced that actually they had just lost a couple of months prior, they just lost MO6. So they were still this young blossoming company and they come in and be like, we figured out reusability. And now we're going to go full scale, make the world's biggest, most heaviest, most powerful rocket ever, and we're going to fully reuse it. And it's going to go to Mars. It was just pretty out there. Like it really was. And you know, it's a lot of perspective. But now again, we're coming up on 100 consecutive landings of an orbital class rocket that's, you know, 45 meters tall, 3.7 meters wide. Like this thing is huge. Where is 20 metric tons even empty when it's landing? That thing's already huge. So seeing the success of that, I think people are now more like, well, okay, maybe there is actually the opportunity to be fully reusable. That's definitely probably the biggest constraint that I think has been questioned. That is being- The ability. Yep. And then of course, like the broader one of costs, bringing down costs that you're able to kind of bring down costs so much that this something like colonizing Mars or many trips to Mars will be a possibility. As people don't even, it seems so far out that they don't even have time or give effort to questioning it. But it's the implied questioning. Can you really do that many launches? Actually do it. Can you actually do it? Yeah. I think it's one of the things where you look at the curve. You look at like 10 years ago, that was ridiculous. Following this curve, if SpaceX goes from two years ago launching, I don't remember what it was, 40 times to 60 times to 100 times this year, is there a mount? And if we just keep extrapolating that out, if they maybe not that exponential, maybe it goes more linear or whatever, what's 20, 30 years? Like the amount of stuff we can put on orbit and the potential we have to do things like, absolutely. Now I don't want to put a time for you. Yeah, I think, but you got to think, we're increasing the number of launches. We're increasing the amount of things in space. We're increasing the amount of payload on orbit. That's probably not going to decrease anytime soon. And therefore, eventually, like the idea of going to Mars is absolutely reasonable. Let me ask a difficult question. I need to be asked here. Can SpaceX continue its successes without Elon? This long-term mission to Mars. I think the discussion about Tesla and autopilot or robotics or a neural-incoed-bane computer interfaces is a question wholly separate from the SpaceX question. Because there's a lot of other competitors doing. Some different, but amazing engineering that Tesla is doing. And both autonomous vehicles, semi-autonomy or full autonomy, and obviously in vehicle design, and electric vehicles, there is a lot of people that are doing incredible brain-computer interfaces. But while there is a lot of competitors to SpaceX, and we'll talk about many of them that are doing amazing work, it seems like he's really driving progress here over the past 10 years. What do you think about that? OK. The first thing I think to remind people is just how many brilliant people do work at each of these companies, obviously. Yes. Elon's had some of the best teams assembled ever. Just incredible people. He knows this. He will gladly tell people. And he says it often, like the amazing people, the amazing teams here. So it is important to remember that. That being said, there is something to Elon's just super-far-forward, not taking no for an answer on things approach. And almost to his dismay, I think, he is afraid of the sunk cost fallacy so much that it almost gets to the border of like being, you know, like, throw out everything before it's even we've known or not, but at the same time, it moves the needle so fast, so far. So as far as the question of would SpaceX continue to like succeed and be able to ultimately go to Mars without Elon, the Mars thing, I think, would probably be hard to uphold without. I think a lot of that drive for Mars is from Elon. It is maybe too fantastical for the average person and the average employee and maybe the average CEO that might step in to have a company's mission be to go to Mars. Or even governments, clearly, because like you said, the Mars plan was not existing for NASA. Yeah, still really there isn't much, you know? So I think if how many people in Saratunjurov, how many people are talking about it's obvious that we need to become multi-planetary. Right. There's not. There's the Mars Society and like serious leaders of engineering efforts or nations and so on. Yeah. Which it does seem if you think about it that it's obvious. Yeah. And the grand eventuality, it is obvious. Of the human civilization, this whole human experiment we have here, we should be expanding out into the cosmos. 100%. So I think the big mission, if we're measuring SpaceX, SpaceX's success on getting to Mars or not, I think they'd have a really hard time continuing to fulfill that drive without Elon at the helm. Now, I think there's a certain balance and beauty of Elon is specifically when it was Tesla and SpaceX, where Elon will go in, you know, have mild tornadoes around the factory and the engineering, you know, and like makes everything up and things get sometimes just totally thrown together, you know? And totally just like get it done just to get it done and start moving in that direction. And then he'll leave and go do that same thing, you know, at SpaceX or Tesla vice versa. And then there's a little bit of a calm where people come back in and they fill in those caps, you know, and I think that's kind of always been a pretty healthy thing, honestly. It's like, I think if he is too focused on any one thing, it almost is like, he'll spin too much, you know, like the too many tornadoes. Yeah, too many tornadoes. And I think it could almost be like, you need someone to come back in and like, you know, like backfill almost. I've heard definitely stories of like, like, well, probably a good example would be last, last, was that last year or two years, you know, 2022, yeah, was that, yeah, or no, 2021, they did the first full stack of the Starship Super Heavy. And they called it the big surge, all of a sudden, like thousands of SpaceX employees, you know, came down to Starbase and they just started building, like you wouldn't freaking believe, I mean, it's just things going crazy. beeping, it was actually in the middle, that first interview I did with him was in the middle of that surge. There was like, commotion, like you wouldn't believe, you couldn't hardly talk because there's just so much going on, people just welding and blah, blah, blah, you know, everything they did during that period was basically scrapped. Because it was just not done very well, but they got a fully stacked Starship Rocket out on the launchpad. You know, and it set, I think at some point, you kind of have to stabilize some things enough and just say, like, this is what we're doing to catalyze some things and say, now do it, it's almost like, do it for fake, now do it for real almost. It's funny because through that time, because I had a lot, a lot of conversation with them, I think that process was hugely stressful. There was a sense, I don't know where that sense is today, but there's a sense that Starship is going to be very hard to pull off. Yeah, but that's still... Like, borderline impossible to pull off. And that was really weighing having on him and the team and everybody. Yeah. So to have this chaos of development is fascinating. Yeah, big time. And I think they really had to push, you know, if they hadn't done that, if they hadn't done that big push, you know, we might only be now seeing a rocket stacked for the first time. You know, it might be a lot more finished rocket, a lot more high fidelity, a lot more flightworthy rocket finished, and stacked, but... And they might not have to walk stuff backwards, but at the same time, like, you do have to... In this world, you do have to push really hard to make rapid iteration and rapid change in progress. So it's interesting. I don't know. So lingering on that, another question I really should ask you, because of... You've seen... You've been in awe of the amazing development of space travel technology over the past few years. What do you think about Elon buying Twitter? So in this perfect balance, optimized reallocation of tornadoes throughout the various efforts in human civilization, do you think... Do you worry about his involvement on Twitter? I mean, personally, I just... I see that as a lot less important than... And personally, for me, inspirational than starship, and the work done at SpaceX and Tesla, to me, those were too very impactful, and really, really just generally... You're nighting, like, something to you rally around, get excited about, rally, and just a future look forward to. The idea of we're going to be building the world's most powerful, biggest rocket ever, and it's eventually going to be able to get humans on Mars for the first time. And we're going to transition the world into fully sustainable, awesome, just totally badass cars that do all these cool things. To me, those were, like, that brought a sense of unity and a sense of, like, we can do this. Personally, I just don't think that a social media, no matter what it is, I don't see that in a social media. And I don't see any sort of politicking as ever, anything that's really, ever-uniting thing. I understand that I totally agree with you, especially space, I'm inspiring you to... I have to push back. I do think the impact of social media, the basic level of meaningful connections of this collective intelligence that we call human civilization, through the medium of digital communication, which is social media, I think that can have a huge impact. It could be the very vehicle that increases the inspiration that SpaceX does and are different. The thing I've criticized them a bunch for is like, why bring politics into this? So the political divisions that we see on Twitter, feeding them is tricky. It's tricky to sort of understand what is the value of that, what is the contribution of that to this whole effort we're going on. So that's been a big challenge. But that said, like, again, this tornado, the number of tornadoes in social media, I think is really important because social media has such a huge impact on us as a society, and to have a transparent, have a bit of turmoil, it's like Tom Ways says, I like my town with a bit of drop of poison, with a little drop of poison. So like, a little bit of that, shake things up, I think might be really healthy. I just worry about the long-term impact on the whole Mars project through that. And so, but you know what? This life, one of the reasons that's fun is through the chaos, none of us know how it's going to turn out, and hopefully we try to help each other to make sure it turns out well. And this really isn't anything about my personal politics or anything like that, but really just generally, and any of my friends that are like, the first thing you hear about them in their day is something that happened in politics, or something that some world leaders doing or not doing, or saying, and not saying, I just don't find that to be the most important thing, really. I know that obviously that can affect a lot of people, that has big real-world consequences, politics do. Well, like, I just, and this is just me, I'm such a little, come together, you know, cheerio kind of guy, that I just really think like you need something bigger than bickering about what, you know, what people said and did, and what they voted on, and all this stuff, to really push humanity forward. Like, I, you know, I know that politics and their, and by extracting that social media can affect things like spaceflight, and even our like planetary defense, like being able to defend ourselves against asteroids, like if politics has their way and everything goes to crap, and we don't even get to, you know, yeah, we're not gonna be able to, you know, continue spaceflight and things like that. But like, I don't know, I just think there's better ways to do it, and more uniting ways to do it than, than, you know, what feels like a mature name calling sometimes, you know. Yeah, I think the political bickering that most people talk about, that's, I'm top of most people's minds, is the thing they'll be completely forgotten by history, it has actually very little impact. Yes, politics matters, but like, 1% of it. I think most of it is just political bickering the push and pull of the right team and the blue team and then the news media that feeds off the division for the attention, and it's just like a fun athletic event almost with the blue team and the red team. So, on that, you kind of have to have a historical perspective on it. Like, most things will not really have a significant impact, and we should focus on development of science, technology, engineering, which is the thing that grows the pie. 100%. This is what the economist know well. Yeah. Just the innovation, the engineering, that's what actually makes everybody richer. Yeah. This kind of political bickering is just eating the pie. And not just richer, but it improves their lives. You know, we can look at every modern technology that is bestowed upon us today, air conditioning, electricity, internet access, fresh clean water, running water, blah, blah, you know, 100 years ago, so many of the things that I listed either didn't exist or were only accessible by the ultra wealthy, you know, and it's through the innovation of technology and engineering and education that we are able to have it be that even someone below the poverty line and the most of the developed world will have a good number of those things in their life. And that's just continuing to increase and continue to get better. So, I think, yeah, that's to me that's in the grand scheme more important, but to each of their own. Speaking of amazing technological development, you have a few videos on this, but how does a rocket engine work? You're wearing some of the instruction manuals, but for one type of it, like what's the fuel, what are the types of different rockets that you can kind of give an overview? Yeah, ultimately a rocket engine converts high pressure and heat into kinetic energy. Like that's the only real job of a rocket engine is to take high pressure gas, hot, high pressure gas, very energized. There's a lot of energy involved. And then literally turning that into molecule shooting in one direction into kinetic energy. So, yeah, what you do, basically, you know, I mean, the simplest version of it is, of course, like famously a balloon. You take a balloon, fill it up with air, you've got a pressure, you let go of it. Some of the air shoots out in a general direction ish, you converted that pressure into kinetic energy. Now, if you start scaling that up, you know, you can continue to do something like that. Like cold gas thruster would be kind of the most simple and easiest rocket engine to make would be a cold gas thruster. And all that is to literally just take air, or specifically nitrogen, because it's a little bit more dense and all the others, or you know, the majority of our atmosphere, you can, or sorry, it's more sparse. You can condense that down a sort of really high pressure bottle. And then just literally shoot it through what's called a D-level nozzle, which is something that chokes the flow a little bit, gets it to be, takes it and gets it into supersonic speeds. Once it's at supersonic speed, you actually can't choke it down anymore. You'll just constrict the flow of mass flow, constrict the airflow. So you actually go opposite, you start making it wider. And once it's already at supersonic speeds, if you expand it and make it wider, it actually gets faster and faster. So at first, you know, when it's subsonic gas, you start shrinking, you can strict the flow, you know, it's actually speeding up just like, you know, a highway if you go from, you know, any of these examples like a water hose, you know, if you pinch it down, you want to flow the same amount of water from point A to point B through a smaller pipe, you can, you can flow more water, you're the same amount of water from point A to point B with a smaller pipe, it just has to go faster. So obviously, you can constrict it, but at some point, you actually get to a physical limitation, and that happens to be the speed of sound. Once it gets to the local speed of sound, you can then actually do the opposite. You actually expand it back out, and you're continuing to convert the pressure into velocity at that point, but it's now supersonic. And what's interesting is, while you're doing that, you're actually cooling it down to each bit of that pipe that you're making wider and wider and wider, you're cooling down. So the more heat energy you have to work with, the more work you can actually do. So at some point, a hot high pressure rocket engine is the best source of like, that's the ultimate amount of work you can do. And the nozzle, so as you're saying, there's a bunch of different design options, but it's a critical part of this. Yeah, how you do that conversion, which basically, like how much can you convert is really like the ultimate game. How much pressure and heat can we convert into thrust? Like that's really at the end of the day, that's what a rocket engine is. So you have to have a powerful enough rocket engine to actually lift the rocket and will rocket is mostly just fuel. It's like 90, 90 plus percent just the weight of fuel. So you just have to lift the fuel that's going to take it, you know, into orbit. And that's the thing specifically for rockets, you're just saying generally rocket engines, but for the task of going to orbit, you're fighting gravity, earth gravity, which is fundamentally different than moon gravity or Mars gravity. Yeah. Or like you said, traveling out the space, earth has a pretty intense gravity. It's to overcome. We're lucky. Because if I think of his 10% either way, like 10% harder, it'd be like, we could still do it, you know, we'd still with our current technology would still be able to get stuff into orbit. Man, things like reusability and this, you know, commercialization, the success that we've seen in the last 10 years, we would just be on two thin margins, I think 10% easier. And we would have been like, I mean, it's just like totally different. It's so much so much easier. It's like this big, you know, sliding scale. And 10% in either direction would be either screwed or really happy, you know, as far as getting in this space. So it's just hard enough that it, things like fully reusable becomes very, very, very difficult. I think it's completely achievable. We have all the pieces to make it achievable. It does not disobey any laws of physics. It does not disobey any, there's no like hard stops. It is just very, very, very hard. And so ultimately, yeah, like on earth for the first bit of launch, again, when the rocket's pointing straight up and it and the engines are pointing straight down, pointing up, flame me and down, you're fighting gravity. And so that's kind of your biggest enemy outside of the earth's atmosphere too. So what kind of sources of fuel is there? So this chemical rockets, liquid solid gas, hybrid, there's electric. So what are the kinds of fuels we're talking about? What are oxidized? What can you just explain your shirt? I guess. Yeah. So really, I mean, fuels, it's, there's kind of two terms. Well, you'll generally hear the word propellant being used. It's anything that is used to propel a spacecafter or use in a rocket. And so you have to have, you know, you can have a fuel. You have to have a fuel. You have to have an oxidizer and you have to have a spark to actually get those things burning. And that's just a general law of like the universe. You have to have fuel and oxidizer in a spark. Now, some fuels will by themselves spark like hypergolic fuels, but ultimately you're always left with some kind of fuel oxidizer in a spark. So the general ones use most often in rockets. Liquid oxygen is kind of the king of, well, there's better oxidizers, but they're extremely, extremely hard to work with like fluorine. But generally liquid oxygen. So you just chill oxygen down to its liquid state minus 183 degrees Celsius. So it can be dense enough to store in tanks, you know, it's a thousand times more dense when it's in a liquid than it is as a gas. RP1, which is basically kerosene, is a very common fuel. Another common fuel nowadays is methane, liquid methane. Liquid hydrogen is another, it's the most efficient potential for the most efficient since it's one of the lightest molecules. So I think correct me from wrong, but Falcon 9 uses kerosene and then starship uses methane. Yep, good methane. Yep, for fuel. And they both use liquid oxygen for their oxidizer. For their oxidizer, okay. Yep. But then, you know, if you get into hypergolic, you'll normally have nitrogen tetroxide, which is your oxidizer and some form of hydrogen for your fuel. There's solid rocket propellants like solid rocket boosters and those are actually pre-mixed. Your oxidizer is inherently like baked, literally like kind of baked into the sludge of fuel. So like for SpaceX, it's all chemical liquid fuels. Yep. Yep. So how many solid base fuels are there? Is that they still being used to days or most rockets? Yeah, and the United States really is the only ones that, well, the only ones, I guess early on, because it was really just the Soviet Union versus the United States. The United States started to use solids pretty early on. They're simple and easy, but these days like, you know, you'll still see them kind of as traditionally like boosters, like they're used to just help get something off the ground or help give it a little extra boost. So the Space Shuttle famously had those two huge white solid rocket boosters attached to the orange fuel tank. Those are solid rocket propellants. Things like the Atlas 5 can have up to five smaller solid rocket boosters. There's very few rockets that use a pure, at least these days, that use a pure solid rocket motor for its first stage. There are still are, especially in China, there's a lot of startup rocket companies that kind of use just missile technology. You know, they might use like a, they might just be a variant of an ICBM that just use solid rocket fuel because it is very relatively easy to develop, you know, model rockets use solid rocket motors and stuff like that. So they're, they're still around, but they're just not as elegant and not as, yeah, not as, as you use these days. So what are rocket engine cycles? Again, I think getting more towards your shirt question. You have a really good video called that, I mean, a lot of your videos that are technical are just exceptionally well done. So I just, I think you deserve all the props you get. I mean, thank you for doing this work. Really, really, really well done. So it's called rocket engine cycles. How do you power a rocket engine? And you go through all the different options. Is there something you could say about open cycle, close cycle, full flow, all the different variants that you can use words to explain? Yeah, without a little pretty pictures. Yeah, without the pretty pictures. So ultimately, you know, like we said, we, your ultimate goals you want to get heat and pressure into an engine. So obviously at some point, you can either make really thick tanks of your rocket. You can like, get it so thick that you store the propellants and really, really high pressures. But obviously, like that doesn't scale very well. At some point, your rockets so heavy, you can't even leave the ground or you know, it's just so much of your mass is just literally the walls of the rocket. So at some point, people realize, hey, we could actually just pump the fuels and the oxidizer into the engine at a high pressure and it increased the pressure through a pump. Now, obviously, a pump is going to require energy. You have to get that energy from somewhere. And again, at some point, people were like, well, rockets are, there's already a rocket fuel here. You know, we'll just use some of the energy from the rocket fuel to spin these pumps. So that would be considered like open cycle, closed cycle, full flow stage combustion cycles are ways to tap into the propellant. Actually, when there's tap off, explainer cycle, I mean, all of them kind of do the same thing. But you end up at some point spinning a turbine, you know, a turbine can take some of the heat energy and the and the pressure of an engine. And then they can, that can be connected to a shaft to pumps. And those pumps can, you know, increase the pressure of the propellants and force it into the combustion chamber. Now, the difference between open cycle, closed cycle, full flow, all those is what happens after the gas has flown through the turbine. So after you've used the turbine and spun up the energy, you know, spun up the engine, what happens to that gas? So in an open cycle engine, you basically have like a separate small rocket engine in a sense. It's a gas generator, they call it. And that will be used to create someone, you know, take a little, we'll say 10% of your the propellant flowing to the engine and said you reroute it to like a smaller rocket engine called the gas generator. You point that at your turbine and that will spin your turbine up to, you know, ridiculous speeds, 30,000 plus RPM. And then after it spins, it's wasted most of its its energy, you know, and it's just dumped overboard. That would be open cycle. You're not worrying about it after that point, but you are left with a lot of unburnt, you know, unused fuel. A good amount of that fuel is just completely, and especially because the turbine, you you got to keep it from melting. So you can't run it at like optimal ratios. Not necessarily stoichiometric and a rocket engine, you actually don't want it to be near stoichiometric where you releasing all the energy. You actually want to release, you actually want to be throwing out the lighter molecule so it can be shot out faster generally in the engine. So, but in order to have a turbine survive, you have to actually cool, you have to have the gas going through it. It can't be stupid, stupid hotter. Also, you're just going to melt your turbine. So they normally, especially in the open cycle, you just run it really fuel rich. So there's a lot of extra fuel being pumped into it that will keep the temperatures that are reasonable, you know, at a reasonable temperature. So you end up with this like dark, city smoke pouring out of that gas generator. That's just unburnt fuel. It's just wasted fuel. It never got a chance to be used. Oh, interesting. You know, like in the combustion chambers, it's not it's not being used to propel the rocket. You know, it's just being used to cool down the propellant that's being used to spin the turbine, that's being used to spin the pumps to push a lot of propellant into the engine. So, you know, it doesn't take too long before, you know, your greedy rocket scientist being like, look at all this wasted propellant, all this potential energy that's just literally being spewed out the side of the rocket. So that's where the closed cycle comes in. So now you have to get that propellant, take it from basically what was being wasted through the turbine and you're going to try pumping it back into the engine. Now, you don't literally just pump that gas that's, you know, that hot, that gas into the engine because it's actually way too low of pressure compared to the main combustion chamber. And by that point, by the time it's gone through the turbine, it's lost most of its pressure and heat to the turbine. So if you tried pumping it into the engine, you know, just taking that pipe and sticking it right into the combustion chamber, that the much higher pressure, hotter combustion chamber would just go backwards. And it would stall out the engine and blow up the engine and whatever, what have you. So what they actually do is they normally will send, there might be some variations of this, but the general concept is you actually flow all of your fuel or all of your oxidizer through the turbine. So that would be closed cycle. So there's fuel rich, closed cycle, which would be your flowing all of the fuel through the turbine. Or there's oxidizer, closed cycle, which is where you're flowing all of the oxidizer that's going into the engine through the turbine. Now, the trick here is you have to have that turbine after it's done its work. So after it's taken some of the potential energy, some of the heat energy from, we're not calling it a preburner by the way, instead of it being a gas generator, you now call that device that's, that's creating pressure to spin the turbine. You're now calling that a preburner because it's just going to preburn some of your fuel or some of your oxidizer. The trick is that has to be, by the time it's gone through the turbine, it has to be higher pressure than the combustion chamber. Because otherwise it's going to go backwards still. So you really have to get that preburner up to ridiculously high pressures. Like at least 20% higher than your main combustion chamber. And these combustion chambers, we're talking about engines that are at 200 or 100 to 200 even in SpaceX's Raptor engine up to 300 bar in the main combustion chamber. So that's what is that 4500 psi basically insane amounts of pressure inside these combustion chambers. So your turbine has to be even above that or your gas generator or your preburner. So I have to be higher pressure than that even in order to have the flow going the right direction through the engine. So now you'll have those close cycles. You'll have fuel rich, you have oxidizer rich. The trick is now you're starting to get it's crazy. There's just so many compromises. Every little decision you have of like, oh, I did this. Now I know I'll know crap. It's going to do this. For instance, fuel rich, if you ran kerosene, fuel rich, you know how I mentioned SUT coming out of the gas generator. Well, if you run SUT through your engine like that and how to go through your injectors like back into the engine, it'll clog the pores of the injectors and it'll end up blowing up the engine. The SUT itself is so damaging that you can't really run a fuel rich kerosene engine. What exactly is SUT? So it's like fuel somehow mixed up with the smoke. Like what? I wonder what is it chemically? It's a somewhat weird. It's mostly just carbon. It's mostly just carbon that dark solid chunks of carbon and it can cake up and just literally like, you know, like, yeah, it's like ash almost, you know, like at some point, you know, especially under those high pressures and high temperatures, it can physically build up and you know, turn into like stalagmites and stalactites of carbon. Really hard, you know, forge in a rocket engine carbon. I wonder how you figure out that out too. Is that to be experimentation? Some of that is chemist, like theoretical, but like you're going to have to build the thing at scale and actually test it. And trial and error. There is many decades of trial and error. And many pieces of engines that you're trying to piece back to, like, what the hell happened here? Yeah, what happened? Yeah. Okay, so that's close cycle. So how do we get to full flow? So in either of those situations, you're still actually just having the opposite. So if you're fuel rich, you know, all the fuel is going through the turbine, but only a tiny bit of oxygen is actually being put into that pre-burner to spin the pumps. And the rest of the rest of the oxygen is actually going through the pump, the primary pump and straightening combustion chamber. Now, full flow, the idea is you're going to actually pre-burn both your propellants. Both your propellants are going to go through a pre-burner and they're both going to end up spinning one of the pumps. So you'll have a gas, a fuel rich pre-burner and you're going to have an oxygen rich pre-burner. Each one of those is going to get just, you know, they're going to heat it up just enough and get it up to just enough pressure to spin up that turbine as fast as they need to do to get the pumps up to the right pressure and still have enough pressure through the turbine to overcome the pressure inside the main combustion chamber. And they're both going to arrive, both your fuel and your oxygen are going to arrive in the main combustion chamber as hot gas is already. So what was liquid oxygen? It's now gaseous oxygen. What was liquid methane is now gaseous methane. And they're meeting this combustion chamber at still ridiculously high pressures again for SpaceX's wrapped engine. They're meeting at 300 bar insane amounts of pressure. And then they then they combust from their on and because they're already a gas gas interaction, they're happy to burn. They're ready to burn. They're ready to mingle as opposed to having a gas liquid interaction, which is what's a lot more normal. You know, you'll have two different states of matter and they just might not. They might take a little more coaxing deck. What's that word? Coaxing coaxing. That doesn't sound like a right. It's not correct. Coaxing. Coaxing. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I don't know. We'll cut that up first. We'll have Morgan Freeman over double. See, yeah. Oh, he's just coaxing. The fascinating thing is they're coaxed as gases and combustion chamber. But yeah, they just take a little bit more. It takes more time in the combustion chamber to have a liquid gas interaction like mixed together and unleash as much of their energy as he can before it exits the system. Are some of the tradeoffs here in terms of efficiency, which is most efficient and then also complexity of the design of the engineering and the cost of the design and the engineering? Like what are the different tradeoffs between open cycle, closed cycle and full flow? Yeah. It's a pretty, it's kind of like a, what's the the bears, the Goldilocks, you know, like it's like, you kind of generally the easiest is open cycle because you're just expeling the exhaust gas, the gas generator exhaust. You're not having to worry about it. You just spin up that thing as much as you need and deal with it, right? No big deal. Close cycles offers 10 to 15% greater performance generally because you're not wasting that propellant. And, but it's complicated. It's a lot more complicated, especially for doing oxygen rich. Now, you're having hot, gaseous oxygen in your engine, which just generally wants to react with everything. It's just a recipe like hot oxygen is just a recipe for things to catch on fire that shouldn't be on fire. So metals, you know, under those conditions, last time, so just spontaneously start burning. You know, you'll actually turn your metal and it will now become fuel. You'll be engine rich before you know it because your hot oxygen is is is eating and using that engine is fuel basically. So oxygen rich is generally very hard, but that is what the Soviet Union ended up doing with almost their entire line of engines was close cycle oxygen rich. But, you know, so those two are kind of generally hard, but offer great performance benefits over open cycle. But at the end of the day, you know, full flow is by far the it's the ultimate of all of them. It's the most difficult, but it's also has the most potential to be the most efficient starship the Raptor to the why is that engine using full flow? Because it's the best. I mean, it's just physics-wise, if you're trying to extract as much energy out of your propellants, there just isn't another cycle type that is better than it. But of course, it's very, very hard to develop, you know, so far to date. The RD 270 and the 60s was built. There is a power head demonstrator built in the United States in the in the 90s and early 2000s, I think, maybe just the early 2000s. That was just the just the power, just the pumps and the turbines and the preburners, no chamber, no nothing. That was a big deal. Only the United States took, you know, millions of dollars to just develop that and then their SpaceX is Raptor engine. So you talked about the combustion chamber and how damn hot things get. High pressure, a lot of heat. How do you keep the thing cool? You have a great video on this. How do you get it from, from what you call it, metal rich engine rich engine rich from like the metal from melting? Well, one of the ways is to let it be engine rich. There's actually you can use a blade of cooling. You can literally let make the walls thicker than you normally make it, make it out of a material that will blade away that will kind of chip away and take some of the heat away with it. It's very, again, primitive and it's actually what SpaceX first used on their first Merlin engines. They used a blade of cooling. So it's basically a carbon nozzle and you just let it get the carbon inner layer of the engine was not of its carbon and you just let it get chewed away and eaten away and that's just something you factor in. It's not a very elegant and it's definitely not reusable in that sense. So there's probably really good models about like how it melts away the rate at which melts away to know what thickness. But boy, it's a dangerous. I just see that. This is part of the design. It seems so silly. So obviously, you probably, you know, it's again, it's not the most elegant. The problem to your geometry physically is changing too, because as you're roting the walls, now things like your expansion ratio or the ratio between your throat and the nozzle exit is changing. Yeah. Because the thickness like the throat diameter is actually like everything's changing. So it's it's not great. It might might not be melting away uniformly. There could be some like weird pockets for aerodynamics. Just a bunch of chaos. Just can I, which I can't imagine having to like figure all that stuff out, honestly. Yeah. So the the more elegant thing to do, there's a couple other things you can do. But the kind of the most common one, especially when we're dealing with liquid fuel rockets is something called regeneratively cooling. And the the idea is you basically just flow fuel or oxidizer through the walls of the of the nozzle on the chamber before they go through like into the injector into the actual combustion chamber. By doing that, you're you're taking heat out of the you know, you're taking heat out of the metal of the walls and you're putting it into the propellant. So you're typically heating the propellant up, which is remember when I said there's gas interaction versus a liquid like liquid gas. Lots of times even if you pump them both that you know as they, you know, are both being pumped as liquids, by the time it goes through the walls of the chamber, lots of times one of them is phase changed into a gas. So now you do have that gas liquid interaction. That's because they're using that the fuel or the oxidizer to to cool the walls of the engine. So when you look at a rocket engine, although it looks like you know a nice beautifully uniform cylinder, you know, smooth thing, there's either there's sometimes like a the channels actually like milled into the walls that they run fuel through. And even though they're tiny, you know, they can be like two, three millimeters thick. They'll actually still have a channel that goes down in U-turns and comes around and comes back all the way down to the tip of the nozzle and everything. So it's just insane that you know that that's pre-designed and that that's like so they design those channels. Yeah. There's probably some optimization there like how the flow happens. Well, especially because you're thinking about a conical thing or like a some iconical thing where the area is getting smaller and smaller and smaller or flowing the same amount of propellant through it as you are down to the you know what I mean like the propellant has to so they have all these unique things like you know sometimes different manifolds where they'll inject more less fuel in certain areas and there must be like propellant simulation software because they can't surely can't like test this on actual physical. Well back in the day they had to just build it. Well, you mean back in the day walked up up hill in both ways. I mean, like anything back in the day before computers. Well, you're like head like you just had to do it. And like your simulation or modeling was like a sheet of paper where you're like calculating stuff. Well, but you can hit flux you know, you can literally see how much energy and how much heat is inside the combustion chamber, how much you know, and that is a measurable thing even without a computer. Now I'm not near smart enough to do any of this like I've never tried measuring the heat flux of anything. I barely even know what that means. I'm just smart and you know how they're vegetating. My friend. So you have a lift. But that is something that people would calculate and they find out okay copper you know does a better job of transferring the heat between the walls of it and into the propellant blah blah blah blah compared to xyz. So you know materials people like I've met just all walks of life, especially just the through MIT, through everywhere. Where's some people are just like a hundred x smarter than anyone you've ever met at a particular thing. Like you mentioned copper they'll know the heat dissipation through different materials. They'll understand that like more than it's like holy shit is possible for human beings to deeply understand the thing. Dude aerospace is full of that. You'll have people that are so niche in some thing that know like the average person has never even remotely thought of yet this person has done it 40,000 different ways in a you know in an environment being like well we find out that if we turn it four degrees that way and add four percent niobium you know like just things you're like what is your life and how do you know this. And the funny thing about them they usually don't think it's a big deal. Yeah they're usually like they're so not shalot about it that if you don't actually you have to know enough you actually have to know quite a lot to appreciate how much more they know. Yeah because otherwise you won't even notice it because our popular culture doesn't celebrate the intricacies of scientific or engineering mastery which is interesting there's all these people that lurk in the shadows. They're just geniuses. Yes. Like you see you'll have like the LeBron's who are like good at basketball so we understand that they're good at basketball. They do this thing with the ball and the hoop and they do like it really well but then a lot of other people under pressure like we celebrate it's getting some big public spectacle. Yeah look out great there yeah. But like the people like yeah at these aerospace companies and NASA SpaceX the kind of stuff they're doing just the I mean there's geniuses there. Insects really inspiring I mean I've I've interacted with a lot of brilliant people in the software world and maybe because I don't deeply understand a lot of hardware stuff materials engineering mechanical engineering those people seem like so much smarter. I mean it's always like the grass is green or whatever the expression is but there's a depth of understanding that engineers have that do like mechanical engineering that's just awe inspiring to me. Not to get too like ex what I don't know what the word would be interviewer or something or whatever but that's actually kind of the whole point of everyday astronaut like that's almost the whole point of what I do each year from the beginning I did a thing called the Astero Awards trying to be like an award show hoping to you know lift up and celebrate and and China spotlight on the people that are actually doing the hard work and try to treat them like the rock stars that they are that we don't know about and I think that's one of the things that for sure I think you know I think Elon definitely helped make spaceflight cool helped make that like a celebration thing where people are physically out cheering for rockets and science and space exploration but I think that's just the beginning you know I think like this should be a thing where the general public looks to these people as the coolest ones as the coolest places to work as the most important things you know sports are great and everything I'm a big Formula 1 fan and things like that but you know at the same time like if we should be celebrating the people doing this crazy work you know clocking in countless hours just trying to figure out this one little thing that's gonna help us further our understanding I mean what's cooler than a giant thing with a really hot fire that that goes boom and goes up into the air I mean like there's no it's like to me like bridges are inspiring it's like an incredible architecture design and like the humans are able to work against nature build these gigantic metal things but like rockets yeah with it like a tiny little humans on top them yeah flying out into space it's like the it's the coolest possible thing everything comes together all the different disciplines come together for the high stakes drama of you know riding that super powerful thing up away from the thing we call home earth it's like it's so amazing so freaking amazing what I think that's kind of part of my like story arc is I I just used to be like a huge car and motorcycle guy like I just loved you know things don't go fast and you know are loud and go fast and make lots of power and at the end of the day like at some point you realize nothing goes faster and it's louder and makes more power the rocket you know I think that's I think that's kind of where where I eventually just ended up you know wound up there just because there is nothing cooler than that yeah that's the ultimate level reaches a car guy is to become a rocket guy yeah 100% and at some point some car guys literally become rocket guys and strap rockets to cars and try and break land speed records you know like it's yeah it's it's the same universe here and yeah so Elon with your conversation with him on the Raptor 2 was talking about you were talking about like there's an excessive amount of cooling to be on the safe side as you're developing the engine uh what kind of cooling was that so that would be film cooling so remember how well a little bit of going where talking about keeping the turbine from melting you can just run it off of like off nominal basically off you know typically fuel rich just run more fuel through that so it's cool enough you can actually do that locally kind of in your engine so you can keep it so you know imagine a combustion chamber and the top of it's just a flat like imagine a shower head and then you have like you know the combustion chamber attached to it the outer perimeter there the part where the flame front would be touching the walls you can actually have just more fuel injectors so you're injecting locally a more fuel rich zone along the entire nozzle and that would be called film cooling so it's less efficient though again you're kind of wasting fuel there's fuel that's running you know and your your mixture ratio is off but only for a little portion of your the big picture you know so that's one of those compromises like you can do additional film cooling to make sure you're not melting your engine uh you know but at the cost of performance usually um but you can also be smart and use film cooling you know there's fun little clever tricks um for instance you'll notice on the F1 engine that was on the Saturn 5 you know the biggest rocket that had been built to date prior now to Starship um the F1 has this huge huge huge huge engines there's five of them on the Saturn 5 and you'll notice that like the gas generator has a pipe that comes down and then it actually splits off in a manifold and wraps around part of the nozzle and that manifold takes the hot gas from the turbine which which is actually I mean it's not hot it's actually cold gas compared to the combustion chamber but it's you know in human terms it's still you wouldn't want to put your hand in it you know not live um and it actually pipes that gas into the nozzle so that it creates a film cooling of an actual boundary layer of cooler gas against the hotter combustion chamber gas so basically repurposing that gas that was normally wasted and they pump it back into the engine and then uh into the nozzle like kind of further down so the trick there is it has to be far enough down that the pressure at the in the nozzle because remember as the nozzle gets bigger and bigger and bigger the pressure is getting lower and lower and the temperature is getting lower and lower so you have to find this tradeoff point where the pressure is is lower than that gas from the turbine and then you pump it in and it's cooler than the than the gas still is in the nozzle and it can help not melt your mouth nozzles so you'll notice that the F1 is actually a good example of regen cooling so the chamber walls you can physically see the pipes actually um on the F1 because it's so big and they just literally use pipes and pentum and you can see that the the coolant channels all the way up and down the engine until you get to that manifold then from there on it just has what's called a nozzle extension and it keeps growing and going going and that section of a nozzle is cooled by the film cooling of the gas generator they mean the aerodynamics of cooler gas and the hot gas uh because you have to have this kind of layer right to protect the layer of cool like understanding that obviously it probably has to do in modern times there's probably really good simulation of aerodynamics but and to do it in terms of pressure too like um to make sure it's in the right place yeah that doesn't like go back oh go backwards exactly if they have that manifold even six inches too high on that nozzle yeah that it's just gonna go upwards you know pressure always wants to flow from high to low the number of options you have here that result in it going boom is very large near infinity yeah especially because I mean you can't do like a small model of it maybe you can no you can't you really scale very well you have to do the full testing and that's why you have all the kind of that's that's why you have with starship all the tests that you know you think why would you need to do so many static fires and so many tests the wise of failing so many times can't you get it right but like it's very tough to get it right well and when you're pushing the boundaries you want to know where and how it's going to fail that's right so you can engineer around them so that's that's a luxury that SpaceX does have with the scale of Raptor you know they're building Raptor cheaper than probably almost any other engine you know maybe besides some of their own at least at that scale then before they're testing you know I think since last March or last April they've tested a thousand Raptor you know a thousand engine fires I guess not just Raptors but you know that's just an insane amount of data and an insane amount of edge cases to learn oh my god we found out that we were actually slightly overspending our turbine in this degree and this frequency is harmonic at this blah blah blah and almost never realized it's rattling and you know it did this and then you can engineer around that you know it's like it ultimately you know I think Elon said something like high production rate solves many ills or something along those lines and it's just true if you have an insane amount of engines and an insane amount of data and insane amount of failures to learn from you just know your system inside now you know those margins you know where the failure points are you know how to engineer around them and that's how I approach dating no I'm just kidding because we're talking about engines so most rockets I think all the rockets have multiple stages today maybe they'll take us in a discussion of what ideas that could be for single stage to orbit rockets but can you describe this whole thing that you've been mentioning here and there of multiple stages of a rocket yeah no that's a good question so ultimately you know like I said you're you're kind of pushing about 90% the rockets like basically just fuel with some skin on it you know what I mean and so that skin weighs a lot of you know skin and the engines do weigh a lot you know I guess the Falcon 9 on so on is about 20 tons just the booster is about 20 metric tons so it's not in significant amount of weight so the idea is with staging is you ditch anything you don't need more or less so in the you know Falcon 9 is a perfect rocket to think about this because you have an upper stage and you have a booster you know our first stage and the first stage burns through all this fuel once it's out of fuel you let go of the second stage and Tadah you actually just basically started and lit a brand new fresh rocket you know this brand new fresh rocket now it doesn't have all that that 20 tons attached to it so it's a lot lighter it doesn't need you know as nearly as many engines to push around it needs just one instead of nine it's engine can be optimized for the vacuum of space as opposed to having to operate it at sea level with all of our actually pretty thick atmosphere you know relatively so either so staging is basically the idea that you get rid of things you don't need on earth again kind of that whole like 10% hard or 10% easier if it was 10% easier single stage orbit would be no big deal and it probably would have been like the the way to get to orbit by choice just because like it's not that hard but with our earth as it is with physics as it is it's just it's doable and we've had and you know we almost kind of actually the first orbit to take humans or the first rocket to take humans into orbit from the United States which was the Atlas rocket was kind of a stage and a half it actually only had like one big fuel tank and what that is they actually dropped off two of its three engines so it just ditched some of the engines but if it hadn't done that you know so kind of people were like well that was single stage it's like it's still had a staging of it still had a ditch mass in order to even make it into orbit had it not done that it would have not been able to get into orbit so you pretty quickly look at your trade and say okay well if I want to stick to single stage orbit my payload mass becomes tiny you know like you you might be able to put like you know Falcon 9 booster on its own like if you just flew one of the side core boosters of a Falcon heavy with a nose going on and everything just saying I'm just gonna fly this on its own you might be able to put like I you know 10 kilograms into space or something you know a very small amount well throw a second stage on that thing and now you can put you know 17,000 kilograms into space so it's just an order you know orders of magnitude more payload capacity because you did staging because you ditched the residual weight so the other thing it's hard about that too is that the engines again that operate at sea level are often not great in in space and vice versa like you physically can't are most optimized for space engines you can't even operate at sea level they'll they'll destroy themselves due to something called flow separation so not only are you getting the benefit of ditching all the weight but you're also able to use a much more efficient and less typically you know much less powerful engine in space so you mentioned on the multi-stage rockets that maybe the dream would be if we weren't living on earth but maybe we can on earth to have a single stage to orbit rocket where it's all one package reusable hmm reasonable gets even harder it gets even harder so first of all what is just a lingana what what is the single stage to orbit rocket and why is it so hard to achieve on earth you already kind of explained it a little bit but just if we were to say like yeah that's your assignment yeah Tim you're supposed to get together with Elon and other brilliant people and like you have to do this yeah why is it so hard why is it so hard it your the payload fraction of a rocket is like three to five or six or seven percent would be like you know that's the amount of payload compared to the total mass of the rocket like you're lucky to get into beyond five percent so if you're now having to deal with the weight of the rocket by a time you're an orbit like you're your payload fraction just you're talking about like margins that's such a so small amount of leftover if you have to take all of it with you so the sooner you can ditch weight the better the sooner you can ditch weight the better the sooner you can you know and that's what you're doing a rocket the whole time is actually ditching weight all of that fuel all that big giant flame you see is literally mass being thrown out the back of the rocket but what typically isn't expended you know at least during nominal operations you're not seeing the engines being you know expelled out the thing until you get to staging of course and that's where you know you're ditching all that dead weight so single stage orbit your margins just become so small that it it's border it's not impossible but it's just at the end of the day like almost no matter who you are you end up saying it's just simply not worth it like I'd be if you have two rockets that are using the same amount of propellant you know they're the same physical sizes and one of them is cut in you know on a third and has another little engine it'll have a hundred or a thousand times more payload capacity than the ones sitting right next to it and now so there's tricks you can do to like try to offset that things like aerospike engines which operate at as efficiently at sea level it kind of optimized efficiency at sea level and just by their by the way they're designed the physics of them they're also efficient in a vacuum too you can do the things like that and at the end of the day though you just end up with a worse rocket than if you had just done stage like no matter what and and people say like well what if you develop the new technologies like okay we'll apply that technology to a multi stage rocket and it's gonna do better you know like no matter where you end up it's just always better to ditch that weight you know is there a cost to having multi stage because you can still reuse the different stages that's the dream is you know it becomes easier to reuse multiple stages because now you know like the booster doesn't have to survive orbital reentry temperatures and extreme environments and you only have to you know make survival the upper stage the only have to put a big heat shield I mean starships the perfect perfect thing of this the upper stage has a big giant heat shield the booster doesn't need it because it's not going the booster is not going to orbit it's only going a fifth or a quarter of orbital velocity so it's the heat that it experiences is it's survivable just by the stainless steel you don't need an additional heat shield so obviously if you're trying to reuse a pretend that you just welded the two stages of starship together remove those engines on starship that whole vehicle return to reuse it the whole vehicle now has to have a heat shield on one side of it yeah the whole thing has to have these big heavy wings by the time you come down to it there's probably just zero payload capacity you basically put your fuel tank in space you know good job so the the dream of a single stage to orbit a rocket is that just even the wrong dream on earth that's what most convention tells you you know by the time if you're if your your if your goal is cheap then you're going to spend you're gonna have a physically larger rocket that has more engines that has more propellant blah blah to put the same amount of thing you say I want to mass into orbit compared to something else you know we're talking like rocket labs electron are really small rocket it's like I think 1.3 meters wide and something like you know 18 meters tall I mean it's it's it's a small rocket if you were to you know the and it can put something like 300 or so kilograms into orbit you can either launch something that size or again like a full like big old Falcon 9 booster the huge huge thing and that would be lucky to put 300 kilograms into orbit you know so it's like which one's going to be cheaper to build you know ship around all the stuff and then you also look at you have fixed costs like the idea of flying a this this again everything in rocket science is a compromise because now you have things like people on console time all the people that are you know on comms and working on the rocket going down to the pad you know filing paperwork doing range control making sure there's not planes and boats in the way flight termination people you have all these fixed costs for any launch I don't care how big the rocket is there's a relatively fixed cost so now you say like okay I'm going to be paying well let's just make a winner I'm going to pay $5 million to fly a rocket between all the people going on say all the propellant all the licenses blah blah if your fixed cost is $5 million you can put 300 kilograms in space versus you have a $5 million cost of operation and you can put 5,000 kilograms into space like it's it's be the business case is going to send you in one direction pretty quickly so you mentioned aeros bike engines I think the internet inform me of your love affair with the aeros bike edge find somebody that looks at you the way Tim not looks at aeros bike engines can you explain what these are how do they work what's beautiful to them what how practical are they why don't we use them oh my god does it just boil down to the design of the nozzle so maybe can you explain how is it possible to achieve this thing for an engine to be as efficient at in a vacuum and sea level in all different conditions you know what I love about this is that every question you've asked me is like a one hour video on my exact like now boil it down to 45 seconds so the aeros bike engine basically is an inside out engine more or less so with a traditional engine you know we're we've talked about the combustion chamber and the throat and then it expands out into the nozzle those walls are containing the pressure right an aeros bike is the opposite it's basically the pressure of the engine is on the outside of it and it's pushing inward against a spike so it's it's almost like it's like the difference of if you were I don't even think about this if you were standing in like a a tent or a teepee right and you put your arms at the top and you pushed your arms out like into an iron cross or something you know you can physically lift the tent just by pushing outwards on the tent walls right well that would be like a traditional nozzle now aeros bike would be almost like squeezing an ice cube you know if you squeeze an ice cube you can push in on it and kind of that wedge force will shoot that ice cube so that's kind of what has happening we have the high pressure gases on the outside of the spike squeezing in on that spike and that's and then it's pushing up against the you know because it's equal on both sides against that kind of the ramp is pushing up against the rocket so that's where that force comes in is against the nozzle against the chambers the hard part with an aeros bike so the cool okay I guess the cool thing about an aeros bike is that it can operate in space you can have what's known as a really big expansion ratio so that's your ratio between the throat the area of the throat versus the area of the nozzle exit and remember how the bigger the nozzle is the it's can continually just converting more and more is converting that high energy hot high pressure gas into cooler and cooler lower pressure and faster gas so each little millimeter along that nozzle is just getting it lower pressure and cooler but faster now if you take a big nozzle on earth and you at sea level and you fire it you can actually get even though we're going from say 300 bar the Raptor engine you know our atmosphere at sea levels about one bar is pretty much exactly one bar depending on conditions but you can actually get a nozzle to get way below one bar of pressure so every little you know you can go from 300 bar in just two meters down to one bar or below one bar there's actually a limit you can actually only expand it below you know we'll say something like 70% so you can get down to like 0.7 bar at nozzle exit before the pressure of the atmosphere is actually squeezing in on that exhaust and tearing it away from the walls of the engine the walls of the nozzle exit and what happens is it's it's kind of unpredictable you get these pockets these oscillations and they'll be so extreme that they'll end up just destroying the nozzle so you can't lower you can't have a bigger expansion ratio then again relatively speaking something like 0.7 like you can't go below you can't get that pressure exit too much below ambient air pressure before flow separation can destroy the engine so how come this engine can do so well in in different pressure conditions so because it's inside out that ambient pressure is pushing the exhaust gas into the wall as opposed to a conventional engine that exhaust get the ambient air is actually squeezing the exhaust gas away from the walls of the engine and that squeezing away from is what can be destructive so that since the since this kind of inside out the ambient air is pushing the exhaust gas into the engine walls so you can't have flow separation you won't have flow separation now what happens is so you can have this huge amazingly like efficient vacuum engine that's that has a we'll say a 200 to 1 expansion ratio which is really big like a lot of sea level engines are like 35 40 50 to 1 expansion ratios and then in space you know it's common to use like 150 180 200 to 1 expansion ratios so an aerospeic can have something like 200 to 1 it's just that the at sea level is kind of just getting pushed and it's kind of getting cut off early almost but it doesn't matter it's not like destructive it's just not running at a maximum efficiency as it climbs an altitude as the ambient air gets thinner and thinner and thinner it just inherently is pushing less and less and less against the walls of that aerospeic engine so it actually continually gets more efficient at you know as it climbs an altitude as as does the normal engine but the difference is that you can use that huge expansion ratio at sea level and you can't use a huge expansion ratio at sea level with a tradition traditional model has that anyone actually flown an aerospeic engine no aerospeic engine to date has there been flown on an orbital rocket why not and would you like to see a future where they're used clearly yeah clearly because I think they're cool yeah you know in the same way that's the core of your love affair with air spike engines is just and I said this in my video actually outside before I came in here I saw an Rx7 on industries that I just love and that uses a rotary engine on paper the rotary engine is like more efficient does it you know smaller more efficient all these things but in practice it's like the thing is actually just like unreliable hot and you know it's blah blah blah blah burn's oil it's kind of the same thing with the air spike engine like yes on paper it's more efficient but now you have a lot more surface area of your your your throat area no matter what is going to have the throat of the other rocket engines always where it's the hottest you know it's the hardest thing to cool and with an aerospeic if you know if it's inside out now your throat is no matter what like way bigger you know it's almost like the size of the nozzle exit normally but now it's your hardest thing to cool and you have a ton of it and you also have two edges of it no matter what so even if you have like a you know a circle inside a circle you have like a just insane amount more surface area to cool with a limited amount of fuel don't forget you're using your fuel as your as your coolant so if you all of a sudden now take your throat area and you have um x amount of space that you need to cool you only have you have a limited supply it's like uh it's side this stuff that is their ideas of for cooling uh of for cooling air spike engines it's same physics apply for an aerospeic as they would so you just run into you just run into a limitation like at some point i'm not flowing enough propellant my it scales is scarce scales kind of poorly you know what i mean like you can increase the thrust of an aerospeic by making it bigger and increase the mass flow and the fuel going through the throats um or the throat but at the same time like it's just it's at the end of the day it's physically possible it's a lot more complex you have a lot of issues with cooling and it's just you end up kind of right back where you started so it's like is it worth it to just keep going down this rabbit hole you know trying to engineer this thing to work when like you could have probably spent a tenth the amount of time just slightly increasing the performance of your normal engine in the first place you know again i'm going to have to promote more fives uh that that lesson and apply it to my dating life i once again just kidding okay um actually just as on a small tangent since you are also a car guy uh what's the greatest combustion engine car ever made to you if you had to pick something what's the like the coolest the sexiest the most powerful the classiest the most elegant well designed i don't know what the other things are different for me but i'd say i still it's funny because now maybe it's just because it's fresh on mind but i love that mid 90s RX 7 which you know especially in in japan they had the the 20b a a tri rotor that is like the coolest engine ever to me the fd rx7 it's just two darn cool honestly uh there you know well what about the mid 90s that makes it special just that's the only time it was it's it's more than i love the engine and i and i like the car it's attached to him and i i'm not actually a big fan of like 90 styling you know personally but just that the 20b is just such a cool cool engine and it's twin turbo sequential turbos so they used um they a bigger turbo takes longer to spool up you know it takes more it's using that same like a turbine and a compressor and it just if it's a large turbine it takes more exhaust gas to get it spooled up so if you have an engine that revs to 9000 rpm and you want to get a lot of pressure out of that turbo you have a big turbo it's gonna take forever like you're gonna have you know your floor and then like it's gonna take a long time for that turbo to get spooled up so they actually did a small turbo on it and a big turbo so the small turbo would spool up first get some boost going through the engine get that engine operating get it up to speed get it you know get some power to the wheels and then once that kind of reaches its limit you'd flow it into the divert the exhaust gas into the bigger turbo it's this sequential turbo and then that now can supplement and actually increase the you know overall performance of the vehicle by a lot and i just i think that's just so cool it's just like the ultimate like brute force out of the box thinking and it actually made it into production you know what i mean can you uh what's the sound like a can you tell an engine by its sound it sounds like a really really really angry lawnmower it sounds horrible it's actually a terrible sounding car in my opinion like it sounds just raspy and like the opposite of like a big muscle car yeah like a big muscle car is deep got a role like deep oh it just hits you this is like the it's just gonna annoy the hell out of you and all your neighbors like it's but you love the engineering i love the engineering of it as it's so to you the car is the engine it's not all the surface stuff all the design stuff uh all the you know what yeah the the the elegance the curves whatever it is well those come and go you know to me styles change forever yeah i'm gonna play that my uh dating all i've once again the metaphors just keep on coming well if you think about it like my taste has changed throughout the years when i first saw uh a model three Tesla i thought it was the most hideous car ever and then without the grill odds like this is so stupid it took me all but two months to think that it was one of the coolest looking cars same with cybertruck i mourned cybertruck when i first saw that thing i was at that that thing with and i went with uh we used to do a podcast called all our literature future so we talked a lot about like you know cars and EVs and stuff we went to that unveiling and literally like we had like almost a non alcohol induced hangover the next morning of like mourning the hideousness of cybertruck come six months later a year later and i'm like dammit that things actually kind of cool yeah that also teaches you something about uh again it's it's to the thing you said uh earlier sort of uh going against the the current or the experts or the beliefs or whatever is and making a decision from first principles some of that also applies to design and styling and fashion and culture and all the time uh some of that you know so in fashion especially so interesting so speaking being rebellious against the current the the current fads actually is the way to pave the new fads when it didn't take long for others to follow you look at like currently like what Hyundai is doing with their i free of which one like the ionic or something like that it's it's square it's like it's boxy you know it's it's a throwback it's 80s it's got these beautiful retro tail lights it's got these square headlights it's it's it's it's very inspired by cybertruck in my opinion that made it might not be it might be coincidental that we're all kind of getting this well i personally i personally like the boxy so i never i still haven't understood uh uh porches porches i still can't quite understand the small size the the the curves i don't quite i don't quite get it like i said i don't love the look of the rx7 i don't love it but i love it because of the engineering i guess that it represents you know what i mean yeah it's it's uh it's not the surface stuff it's the deep down stuff it's that 50 50 weight distribution that matters all right let's uh let's talk about starship a lot we've been sneaking up to it from a bunch of different directions can you just say um what is starship and what is the most impressive thing to you about it and you've talked about that sort of the engines involved maybe you haven't really kind of like dancing around it but because this is such a crucial thing in terms of the next few years in terms of your own life personally and uh also just human civilization reaching out to the stars it seems like starship is a really important vehicle to make it that happens so what is this thing that we're talking about yeah so starship is uh currently in development the world's largest most powerful rocket ever built fully reusable rocket uh two-stage rocket so the booster is landed and you know all this is currently aspirational until it's working uh so i'll i'll say it's i'll say what it's aspiration going to be and obviously i have faith that that will happen but i just factually so the the booster will be reused landed and refueled and reused the upper stage will be landed refueled and reused and ideally rapidly in the in the sense not talking about months or weeks of refurbishment but literally talking about like mild inspections and ideally like under 24 hour reuse you know where you literally land it and fly it like an airplane um so it utilizes liquid methane and liquid oxygen um as it's as its propellants it utilizes uh the current iterations of it are 33 Raptor engines on the booster engine on the booster and six uh raptors on the second stage so there'll be three that are vacuum optimized and three that are sea level optimized on the upper stage that are primarily they'll be used i think at stage separation anyway um in space but though their main reason that they use them is so they can use them for landing too the three sea level engines uh to be able to propulsively land the upper stage as well so the three raptor engines are the ones that generate the thrust that makes it the most powerful rocket ever built by a almost double compared to the Saturn 5 really the n1 had 45 mega-neutons of thrust the Saturn 5 had i think 35 or 40 mega-neutons of thrust and this has 75 mega-neutons so we're talking almost double it's a it's a lot of power um that could be the sexiest thing i've ever heard okay uh so uh so what are the different testing this happening so like uh uh what's a static fire with some of these raptors look like and where do we stand you were you're you're just talking about offline like the thing that happened uh yesterday yeah it was impressive you know everything and this is kind of iterations and so um you know the the milestones that we're seeing we actually have on everydayastronaut.com we have a milestone checklist of like all the things we're hoping to see that we kind of need to see before the first orbital flight of this rocket so a big milestone they got checked off yesterday was a wet dress rehearsal so it's literally like feeling the rocket up getting ready to do everything but lighting the engines basically so we're talking about loading it with propellant all the way uh this is the first time yep right there right there at the top click that big picture yep just anywhere that big picture yep so that there's the wet dress rehearsal so what what's the wet dress rehearsal yep so that's where they uh for the first time they filled it completely to the brim with both liquid oxygen and liquid methane now they had done component level testing where they fill it with liquid nitrogen which is you know it's in a inert gas so it's not like say it leaks out it's not going to explode uh you could just have a big giant pool of liquid nitrogen like flooding the area but it's not going to be an explosion so they've done that for cryotesting to make sure all the components and stuff can handle you know being at cryogenic temperatures um it's kind of a good analog before you start putting your your fuel in your oxidizer in there but now yet as of uh yesterday they fully fueled the rocket with uh propellant both stages the first stage and the second stage wall fully stacked on the on the pad like basically I mean it's the first sense we really got off like this is what it's going to look like right before it takes off you know kind of breathing coming to life for the first time what does the pad look like so there's a few interesting aspects of this what's up with the chopsticks and uh all of that yeah so the the launch pad is is is unique I've never seen anything like it um and the prior history of of space flight but it's a really simple launch stand they basically have like this almost looks like a stool like a you know like a milking a cow stool thing with a a hope a big giant now I know you're from Iowa yeah yeah yes we all know what that stool we all we're all sitting on that stool milking cat yeah uh with the with a giant hole in the middle and that hole in the middle of that stool is where the rocket sits and it sits on these you know launch clamps um and then next to it is the so that's the orbital launch mount and then next to it there are the O well M some people say next to it is the orbital launch tower the O well T and that is not only um integral to fueling up the upper stage generally the upper stage has to have propellant lines run to it so that they can fill it with propellant and you know all that but it also uh they ended up making it so instead of having a big crane on site to stack the two on top of each other they literally just use that tower as a crane so the crane has these giant arms lovingly called the chopstick so the whole system can be called mecazilla and that will grab on to first it will grab on to the booster pick it up off of its off of its transporter that transports it from the production site uh lifts it up puts it down onto the launch mount and then it will pick up the second stage or the upper stage starship and plop it down on top of the booster and they did that for the first time last year actually I think it was like valentines last year was the first time they used the chopsticks to stack it and now they're doing it quite frequently you know but ultimately those chopsticks have to serve a second purpose they're actually going to utilize if you say catch the it's not so much they're going to catch the booster with these chopsticks it's not like it's you know a dad trying to catch a falling child you know it's more that the the booster and the starship will someday land on those arms yeah so um they're more or less stationary I'm sure there's some bit of you know adjustment that the arms will do but more or less the rocket's gonna propulsively land and get picked up by the like what's essentially like two like relatively small ball joints that hold the entire thing and so I have to land very precisely on these these mounts then on onto the launch mount and that's what's going to just place it back onto the stand and allow it to be refueled and fly again what's the idea of using the arms versus having uh launch pad to land on what's what's the benefit you are basically removing the mass of what would be heavy landing legs and you're putting kind of that landing infrastructure onto a ground system so you're not having to carry those landing legs into orbit but it's it's also elevated off the ground is there some aspect to that well you don't have to balance the thrust and all the you you you can negate some of those like there's like plume plume interactions there's like you know the exhaust hitting concrete and especially with the rocket this big it's gonna you know use like three wrapped engines firing you know if you have them firing really close to the ground you're just gonna absolutely destroy and crater the ground and you're gonna refurbish the ground and the landing pad every time and you know or have huge landing legs that are super long and tall you know to to make it so it's elevated enough to not do that um so yeah you're kind of you're avoiding that whole mess by by catching it high enough off the ground that you don't think factor that in and it's that's how many engines are involved in the landing part is the three wrapped engines well we haven't actually you know we haven't to date seen the exact landing sequence so it might be something like at first they might light up you know seven or something or nine or something some number to accelerate quickly or decelerate quickly that's the same thing um and and then shut it down to three or something to for a little bit more granular control um because unlike Falcon 9 starship has enough engines and variability actually if it needed to hover you know to maybe more precisely align itself with the pad it would have that capability um and especially having multiple engines you know if you only have a single engine running you can't really roll you know your roll axis you can do pitch and yaw because the the engine is kind of like a rudder it it can move in two axes so you can easily pitch and yaw the vehicle but to actually induce roll along its its vertical axis you you'd either need like auxiliary engines to roll it or you'd need a pair of engines so they can be opposed and induce roll so by having two or three running they have all three axes of control that they would need kind of like a broomstick you know and uh balancing broomstick on your hand they can just move it over and if they need to align it to those landing nubs you know on the landing arms and stuff like that then uh they can do that speaking of pitching yaw the thing uh so Starship flips on its belly flops there's a interesting kind of maneuver on the way down to land uh can you describe that maneuver what's involved with that yeah so this is definitely a first i don't think anything's tried landing like this before but the idea is when you're falling through the atmosphere the atmosphere could actually do a lot of work for you you know you're moving quickly something is falling from space there's a lot of energy involved you have a really good video on this as well and uh thank you um the uh as it's falling you know you can you let the you want to let the atmosphere do as much work as it can and so um if you have a unsymmetric you know it's not a ball that's falling this is some kind of object with with shape some you know at one face of it is going to have more surface area than the other face so you know in the in the shape of like a cylinder if you're falling you know like a soda can if you're falling top or bottom first it's a certain amount of surface area if you flip that on its side you actually have a lot more surface area so with the same exact vehicle you can actually have a lot more drag you can actually slow it down a lot more using the exact same like same atmosphere same same same vehicle just by turning at 90 degrees you can slow it down substantially like three or four times slower so that's energy that you don't have to use anywhere else you don't have to use an engine to slow you down you don't have to do anything else so space x realize okay if we flip this thing on its side and let it fall like a skydiver almost you know instead of like pencil diving into the pool your belly flopping you're maximizing the amount of surface area that's in the wind stream that's being slowed down but obviously like in order to land especially if you're SpaceX and you know Elon's obsessed with like not having different parts you know he wants the best part is no part so if you're going to land with the engines you might as well use engines they've already have the engines that are you know used for the other portions of flight so you kick those on and you use those engines to actually turn it 90 degrees from belly flopping to feet first and that way you can use those same engines to land and you don't have like auxiliary landing engines you don't have forces you know even if you were to land like on its belly with a separate set of engines not only would those engines weigh a lot you know and be extra complexity etc etc but you also not have to make the ship be able to handle landing you know like on its belly as opposed to having the forces be vertical through it but it's a giant thing you have to rotate in the air huge and as you also highlight you know there's liquid fuel slushing around in the tank so like you can't I guess use that fuel directly after another kind of fuel like there's just complexities there yeah involved plus the actual maneuver is difficult from the like like what are the thrusters that actually make that make all that happen you're you're adding a lot of complexity not a lot but you're complexity to the maneuver and possibility where failure could happen in order to sort of save in order for the air to do some of the work so what is some of that complexity just you can linger on it you know if you if you think about what it's going to take to go from horizontal to vertical this rocket in particular the Starship has these big flaps so it has kind of two nose flaps and two rearward flaps the rear flaps are a lot bigger because of majority of the the mass the engines and stuff are in the back of the vehicle so in order to kind of be stable and they just fold themselves inwards like on their dihedral angle at a dihedra angle in order to increase or decrease the drag so you can control its all three axes of control while it's falling you know on its belly you can control it that way using these four different fins so you have these giant moving surfaces that take thousands of of horsepower it's just insane amount of torque in order to move these quickly enough to be a valid control surface so that's a huge complication of moving these fins and developing that that landing algorithm and the you know the control for a huge vehicle with flaps going like you know in and out in and out in and out to stay stable then right as you light the engines now all of a sudden you want the top you know that you want to flip the rocket 90 degrees so the rearward flaps the bottom flaps fold in they tuck all the way into minimize drag that's going to make it want to you know swing down you extend the upper flaps that makes it so that nose wants to pitch up you kick on the engines they're now lighting all three engines at least as of the last like successful temps they like all three of the sea level rapture engines and they're pitched all the way like you know ten or fifteen degrees or whatever the maximum pitches on them and that induces you know it does that kick maneuver to kick it over from horizontal to vertical now the problem is you let your engines while you're horizontal so they put some horizontal velocity into the rocket they're pushed the rocket you know at the time the nose is at the time of lighting those engines the nose is facing the horizon and the engines are facing the opposite horizon yeah so you now shot at a decent amount in an often you know the direction that you're not falling you know so you have to factor that in to where you're landing because you're going to land on this precise in this case you're going to land on the inside the arm the loving arms of the chopsticks you know the creed arms wide open you know try to land inside this exactly the song that you're playing through my head as I watch this now thank you thank you for forever joining those two appreciate this and you have to very precisely control so what you have to do is now that it's done that kick you also have to cancel out that horizontal velocity so it's actually going to rotate beyond 90 degrees to cancel out that horizontal velocity and then modulate the engines to make it so the thrust you know is perfect so that it can control itself into a control landing and all this is done in like 500 meters like 1500 feet you know you're doing all of those things stupidly close to the ground it looks absurd so far they've done five of these tests all the first four all blew up you know they're all coming in from about 10 kilometers or 33,000 feet falling flipping you know again this thing is huge that just the booster or just the upper stage of this is like 50 meters tall you know so it's 150 it's like 45 meters about 50 meters tall about 165 feet tall nine meters wide it's a 30 feet wide it weighs you know something like god I don't remember if it's something like 120 metric tons so 120,000 kilograms you know two quarter of a million pounds empty and it's doing this flip maneuver that has to do all this perfectly so the first four attempts of this were pretty spectacular failures so just to clarify which stage is doing this maneuver it's the upper stage is doing this belly flamen ever yep so this is the the stage that would presumably have humans on board if we were to use and if things continue to play now here's here's something I would love to see yeah just saying this yeah if you already have these big arrow surfaces the flaps they also have to move they're on heavy motors and hinges and flaps and all that stuff I'm actually surprised that for earth they aren't just looking at landing it horizontally on a runway like space shuttle I mean that worked the braundit you know the Soviet Union's braun I rolled my real hard there so thank you wow wow really get the super impressive and you know the braundit we have other space planes like the x 37 b we have the upcoming serene vatis dream chaser uh it's yeah you have some extra mass in the wings but so does starship starship has the extra mass of those flaps and you know the the motors and the hinges and all that stuff I I would like to see the trade on like is it actually lighter weight to do that versus doing what space x is doing so yeah I mean that's the that's the funny thing I think realistically if Elon walks in the door tomorrow and says guys we did some simulations and actually it's like we can get another 5,000 kilograms into space if we just land at horizontal if we kind of give up on our ego and landhors on the at least on earth then you know I think they could be doing that pretty quickly because that's the thing is that's ultimate thing has been to land on Mars and you know other planets and Mars doesn't have a runway doesn't have a you know thick enough atmosphere to utilize aerodynamic flight like that so you have to do propulsive landing for Mars you're gonna land on a unprepared surface you know so it has to be able to do this at some point the ultimate it sounds ridiculous and it is but the ultimate goal of it is to land on Mars there's not much of an atmosphere to like to help you with the to for the belly thought to be useful there's only 1% the atmosphere on Mars as there is on earth but you still want to utilize as much of that atmosphere as possible so in the upper atmosphere it's still going to be coming in more or less kind of perpendicular to the air stream I guess it's probably more like you know 60 degrees 70 degrees to the air stream like where it's belly flopping and it's going to especially do that on Mars it's going to need to you know use up as let the little bit of atmosphere there is you know you're coming in to insane velocities and so even that 1% thin atmosphere is still going to do a lot of work now on Mars that there's only 38% of Earth's gravity on Mars so the belly flop maneuver is a lot it could be a lot more conservative you could do that at like 5,000 feet up and it just wouldn't matter as much because there's not as much gravity loss or gravity drag so you can kind of just more slowly gently you know you don't have to do this crazy extravagant like belly flop you know flip maneuver but it would still something at some point you would transition from more or less perpendicular to the air stream to you know horizontal to landing vertically I like how we're having this old boring conversation about the differences of landing on Earth versus on Mars this is surreal that this is actually a real conversation that this is something that we're discussing yeah because it has to do both yeah but in my opinion yes I think we'll pretty quickly see an evolution of starship that's like dedicated versions for certain tasks sure and at the end of the day again if it's if someone runs the simulation says it's actually more efficient and it's better just to land horizontally on a runway then that's what's going to happen you know it it doesn't matter but they still will develop you know if the ultimate goal is to land on Mars and they'll have a dedicated Mars variant you know which will likely look different than the Earth variant you know and they'll still probably be launched on the same booster you know what I mean so there's oh you mean like that particular vehicle will not be returning back to Earth it'll need to be modified because uh because the ultimate is to have one starship that goes to Mars lands on Mars and takes off of Mars lands back on Earth and is reused again yeah over and over and over and there's a chance that you you know you have just a a cyclor just uh you know if you're if you at the end of the day you're just really trying to see what is most feasible what's the most efficient you literally have a vehicle dedicated to Mars Mars is easy to do a single stage orbit it's a lot lower gravity a lot thinner atmosphere you can easily do a single stage orbit you get into orbit you park to a dedicated you know transfer vehicle that goes between Earth and Mars it only stays in space you don't have heat shields you don't have landing legs you don't have all these things that you need and ideally it's nuclear powered so it's super efficient that gets you back to Earth once you're at Earth you rendezvous again with another landing starship and that starship might be horizontal runway starship you know like yeah there's no I I don't see the and I think ultimately it'll win out where we don't have a one size fits all I think that's the that's the flaw of the space shuttle really is that it was trying to do everything and ended up kind of doing nothing well but that's I think what SpaceX has proven I mean SpaceX already has variants coming there's already going to be a dedicated lunar lander for NASA for the Artemis program there's already going to be a tanker variant there's already going to be likely just a pure cargo version there's likely going to be a human version we'll likely see evolutions of this thing happen you know relatively quickly and when once it's all working it's only a matter of weeks before people riding on it will be complaining about the speed of the Wi-Fi as the old like Lucy K joke with like you're flying on a chair through the air it's incredible you didn't even know this existed and now you're complaining about it that's great exactly so you you tweeted fun fact about starship by doing the flip around 500 meters versus higher up like 2000 meters the difference in delta V is 500 meters per second that's a 20 ton fuel saving which means basically 20 tons more you can put into orbit that's more than Falcon 9 has ever launched just by flipping later that's really interesting so there that that was the decision to to flip close to the ground yeah yeah closer to the ground the better the more again the more the atmosphere is doing work and you know we get into that video really dives into like gravity losses and gravity drag the more time you're spent every every second that your rocket engine is running earth is stealing 9.8 meters per second of acceleration against you there's just inherently 9.8 meters per second squared of acceleration so every second that engine is running the first of big majority of your thrust is actually being just stolen by earth's gravity well so if you're the longer you're fighting that the more inefficient it is so idea I mean the best thing would be you flip at you know 100 meters off the ground you like all your engines to maximum thrust you pull 50 G's you know you land on a dime basically obviously there's no margin there there's you know and there's diminishing returns on that that gravity loss thing and in your high thrust weight ratios so that's a pretty good compromise like yes it looks scary but they could be a lot more aggressive with that yet and squeeze out even a little bit better performance but there are diminishing returns so that's kind of the the magic number we've seen so far today but we'll likely see that you know be played with you've attended some of these what does it feel like to see starship in person first of all when it's just sitting there stacked and second of all when it's doing some of these tests some of these maneuvers well first off if you have the freedom of traveling and happen to live within a reasonable either by plane or car it's worth going down to south Texas it's so star bases right on the border of Mexico and the United States and and various other tip of Texas right along the Rio Grande and it's it's insane because it's right along a public highway you can literally anyone can drive down this assuming it's not closed for testing because they do close the highways during the week a decent amount while they're doing tests but sands any of those days anyone can just drive down and see these things up close and personal with their own eyes like we're talking you know from 100 200 meters away you know so two football fields away from the world's biggest most powerful rocket imagine being able to do that during the you know Soviet Union and you know during the N1 and Saturn 5 you know imagine just being able to drive up right next to the launch pad there's no way you know and so to have this kind of access to to this program is so incredible the craziest things when you when you're driving out of this the highway for it's bumpy it's it's you know riddled with potholes now because of all the insane amount of trucks having to go out there traffic and you're going through this it's just this weird you're like where am I you occasionally are seeing like you can kind of see the I mean you can see Mexico out your right window as you're driving down this highway you know you're just sitting there like where am I and then all of a sudden you kind of turn this corner and the trees and the brush kind of clear out and all of a sudden you get a sense of everything on the horizon at that point you're pretty much five miles on the nose or eight kilometers away and from there you can just see through the the heat haze through the you know the atmospheric distortion and you just see this weird like looks like a city almost on the horizon you know there's tons of these tall buildings there's a weird ominous launch tower thing with arms wide open and sometimes add you know a giant metal rocket and it just looks so so weird how many it's it's the word surreal I think by definition I think if you are expecting it it's not surreal I think surreal kind of means like unexpected surprise or whatever you know even if you're expecting it even if you've seen pictures even if everything it is surreal yeah you stand there and you just go what is this and and also I mean there is a there's a kind of magical aspect to the this is the place where over the next few years we'll start as a human species reaching out there and traveling out there well for sure see the development of the rockets that I think will take us further than ever before be born right there what's it like to witness the actual testing of starship so far it's been high stakes like it's it's been insane because it was the the first I kind of mentioned earlier there's been S8 9 10 11 and 15 that have all done these suborbital hops the highest one went 12.5 kilometers and the the rest of the four went 10 kilometers in altitude and then turned off the engines and just fell mm-hmm now the cool thing about that is the general public could be about five five miles away so again like eight kilometers away and the weird thing is this rocket's slowly accelerating they didn't want to exceed a certain speed so they didn't have to worry about the aerodynamics of it they just slowly climbed and it probably also to appease the FAA they're like here we'll just limit the thrust away ratio and just you know make make it so it's slow and controlled no big deal so it's basically more or less like slightly above a hover just climbing forever minutes for like four or five minutes you just hear and feel the roar of the thing normal rockets like after the first 30 seconds or minute you know they're so far away that you it's just diminishing you know it's just it's just fading fading fading fading you still get that rumble that that sense but but those first five flights the suborbital hops were just I'll cherish them forever because you just you're watching this thing that you've driven up next to you've seen it with your own eyes that's bigger than most buildings in a you know fairly dense urban area you know it's this massive thing you've seen that you stood there you look at it you're like wow that's crazy you've seen people working on it their little ants compared to it then you drive away and you see it on the horizon and all of a sudden that thing leaves it starts moving hovering hovering essentially and the first time I mean you know you put for me at least I put my hands on my head when I I just I can't help it I'm not it's not so I don't know what it's like you said I don't know what in human nature decides this is what to do when you can't believe something but that's what happens and when that thing first took off it was just like my brain couldn't process seeing you know because I had spent so much time driving around and seeing it all of a sudden you're watching it just take off and you're like it's moving and all these you know the most complicated rocket engines ever made are all firing simultaneously and it didn't blow up on the launch pad and slowly increasing and it's just crazy and the sound that everything about it and so by the time the first one specifically it was it was December 2020 was the first SN8 it it went up and I actually we all lost it in the sky we couldn't quite see it but our we had telescopes and and you know hide telephoto lenses tracking it and it was funny is there is a pretty strong wind up there at altitude and it was moving there's a lot of um glit gaseous oxygen being vented out of the rocket and it's you know being blown by this air so it looks like it's moving actually quite quickly like oh away from us like it was strafing to one side so I'm watching the monitor I'm going oh my god they're moving it like over brownsville and we're all all of us everyone on this this hotel balcony is looking out down like way out over you know and we can't find it and we're like where do they lose it like we're thinking like oh my god this is going to crash down in brownsville and and finally they shut the engines off and we're watching it fall and again we're tracking it we know it's falling and it's falling finally falling super controlled and we're like oh my god this is perfect and all of a sudden it clicked and I see it with my you know my eyes I finally like tracking it's it's straight out like straight in front of us and it looks like it looks like it was a blimp just barely moving because it is falling slowly thanks to all of its drag and again that's one of those moments I'm like this falling so slow you know because it's so big it's so massive it's falling sideways you know I've seen Falcon 9 boosters and Falcon heavy boosters they scream they come in so fast and you can barely even see we can just barely track them all the same light their engines and they they decelerate so quickly this was like the opposite it was like is that thing ever coming down it was falling so slowly and so right there just felt like it was so close and so when it finally lit its engine and it flipped I was losing my mind because I'm like it's working you know this crazy plan this huge massive thing is doing this absurd feat and the first one well the first fork and didn't work out as planned but getting to that point already getting to that flip maneuver was a huge milestone and it was so exciting just going through those those firsts were amazing and I think you know we're coming up now on them doing the full stacks of the booster and the upper stage I think when we see that fly when that leaves earth for the first time it'll be like I said almost twice the amount of thrust is anything else it'll be the biggest heaviest largest thing to ever fly it's going to shake everything I can't wait I have all 33 Raptor engines have been active at once have they tested that no that's coming up that's kind of the next milestone I don't know you know when this will come out but word that's like the next just a few days very quickly here it then but if people listening to this if they're listening to it early on they'll likely be able to catch I you know I think at this point it seems like next week so step one would be static fire yep holding on to the rocket and lighting up the engines and so so far they've lit at most they kind of they went for like a more than 14 engine static fire I don't call for like you know 16 or something engines lit at once and they ended up going down to 14 engines that's the most engines they've ever lit so the next step and the final kind of step before they fly this thing is they're actually going to light all 33 engines simultaneously and all that sounds scary that let's not forget the Falcon Heavy that's now flown five times completely fall asleep has has 27 engines running simultaneously so they definitely have you know SpaceX has experience with high number of engines running at the same time but it is still like this is going to be a lot of moving parts and a lot of potential and a lot just a lot of everything what are the upcoming milestones expected milestones and I think there's one in particular like to talk to you more Bob but leading up to that of course is like what what are some of the tests here on the way so is the static fire the fully stack with the two stages will there be and then all that leading to an orbital launch test what so what are the things you should know about and what do you think like what do you think the timeline will be like the orbital test timeline the reason we have this website the expected milestones is because I always tell people to ignore any time you ever hear for any of this stuff yeah just pay attention to milestones because when you're doing stuff for the first time you know you just have no idea so just to understand the expected milestones here the first column is the event the the second columns the date and status TBD complete green means what green means it's been completed and it shows the completion date there and the completion date yeah and then the other is maybe maybe more maybe not full full stack testing the D stack in the there's a 33 engine so so realistic we're expecting them to D stack and SpaceX I think just tweeted that actually they're going to be D stacking the second stage from the first stage kind of get the ship safe while they test because they don't want to you know 33 engines is pretty high risk if they do blow up the rocket it when they test it for the first time it's not going to be fully fueled I don't think at least but there is a limit to how they do have it weighed down enough that the launch clamps can hold on to it because if you think about it like normally the launch clamps are holding on to an entire rocket weighing 5 million kilograms 5 million you know it's weighing it and insane amount so those clamps don't actually have to hold 75 mega newtons of thrust they really want to have to hold on 25 mega newtons of thrust you know what I mean they're not designed to hold down all 75 they do have enough weight on the rocket so that so even when they do these the testing of the 33 engines it'll have to have enough propellant in there that they don't exceed the clamping and the holding force of the stand otherwise it'll break free from the launch stand and that booster will go flying off on controlled so it's a difficult thing to figure out in the test how many uh simultaneous things you test right so they're kind of mitigating risks which is why like they're D stack you know they don't want to have all the ship could be on top of it to help weigh it down and and simulate the you know the launch environment better at some point they that's of risk they're just going to take when they go for launch and so for now they're taking the ship off in case something goes wrong during the 33 engine test and then once we see if the 33 engine test goes well hopefully we see the the second stage get stacked back on it we'll see them get closer like closing on all the items and hope the big one too is the FAA launch license there that's a that'll be publicly filed we'll see that you know in the system uh having a launch license and I I have no sense of that type of thing you know that's outside of but that's but that is a big milestone and it might be something that could potentially hinder uh you know hold up the launch date would just be waiting for a launch license yeah i'm sure there's a lot of fascinating bureaucracy and politics and uh legal stuff and all that kind of beautiful magical thing when you live in reality uh because it is i mean it is a big uh rocket yeah one the biggest thing it's not so much the FAA doesn't necessarily care about the success of the rocket they did really just care about the safety of public and public property you know so it's it's a matter of being convinced and having the the data to prove okay if this thing blows up we have a control of how and when it blows up we have control of you know x y and z here's the potential damage here's the blast radius you know this again is over twice as powerful and twice as much potential actually it's it's a lot more potential for uh an explosive energy if it you know where it happened to well let me walk back a little bit because in order to have a real detonation you know that have a perfect mixture ratio of your fuel and oxidizer um if when a rocket blows up typically you know it kind of unzips and some of the fuel will mix into some of the oxidizer and you could have some explosive energy but a lot of it's actually just a a deflagration it's just you know flames and and yeah there will there would be explosive energy but it's not like it you're lighting all of its simultaneous chances giant bomb it's just really not so that's good but at the same time even in those circumstances the amount of energy is still absurd enough to likely blow out windows you know for miles and miles and miles including my studio space uh well if the cameras hold up it will be one heck of a show uh hopefully of course would not uh would not happen so how does that take us to an orbital launch when do you think that would happen in in my opinion uh this is a very fluid and this will change literally by the hour so you really think that it's very difficult to really say like uh even even for something that could very well happen this year even just a few months away um you making a prediction uh by the way you like superstitious on this kind of stuff a little bit like you don't you're worried about jinxing it and that kind of stuff no um because i would imagine you would be like waiting for all of these launches that keep getting delayed where you start thinking that there's certain things you do will control the weather my socks it's like I'm aware these socks just scrubbed again you know like yeah you're lucky you have to wear the same lucky socks otherwise it's going to there's going to be bad weather yeah so the reason that I say this and why it's so difficult is they did a first full stack test in July of 2021 and the expectation was we're a month or two away from a launch yeah so like realistically for 18 months have been in a purgatory thinking that we're a month or two away of an orbital launch now I did say for the record when that thing stacked and when a lot of speculation was saying you know a month or two I was saying I don't expect it to fly in 2021 you know and I've been just say I just saw the amount of work that still needed to be done like on the ground systems the tanks the the launch mount all the stuff I'm saying they're like there's still a lot of stuff they got the validated they got the test everything every component and you know people were like how dare you say that even one shot well the president of space actually saying q3 of 2020 I'm like okay but like I'm just I'm not going to be surprised if it slips into 2022 and here we are the beginning of 2023 and I I think we're finally within like two months I I'm expecting like I'm trying to keep my march in April as free as I can we'll put it that way I love it actually just in a small tensioned on going shot well like what do you from everything I know she's an instrumental a really crucial person to the successful space X in running the show she's the president the CEO what do you know about her that sort of the genius of Gwen shot well man my understanding is she's really the glue you know she's the glue to the tornado tornado comes in and then she comes around and just really executes on on and and helps you know I a famous story is that at some point Elon walked in or she sprinted into a meeting because Elon was actively trying to cancel Falcon Heavy saying it's too far like it's too much development was still too far away and this is like you know this might have been like end of 2017 or something and it flew for the first time in 2018 so we're we're talking like it's close to the end of development you know there's hardware being built all this stuff and Elon's literally in a meeting telling people they're going to cancel it we're going to move on to BFR or now Starship and just go full steam ahead on that and she runs into the meeting and reminds Elon we have X amount of customers have already purchased a ride on Falcon Heavy we can't delay that you know so it's that business sense of like we yes it's great to innovate but we also have to pay our dues and and make the money to continue our operations and I think she's just a lot better at she has I think she has such a great perspective on everything it really seems like everything she doesn't I wish she did more interviews because I would love to hear more from her um but man like it just hear that Gwen oh we're both of us yeah she hasn't actually done them in interviews right not really no she's done like a TED talk um a couple little things here and there but not really many interviews and and I would just love to hear like what you know what on a daily basis like what is she doing to keep her head on and and keep everything so organized you know it's you know my yeah my understanding is that she she is absolutely integral and does just a insane amount of work at SpaceX yeah I mean the so it's the project planning but also the how the teams integrate together and the and the hiring and this is the matter I think it's a lot of it's honestly even just the business making sure the money's flowing in a positive trend more or less you know that yes Elon's obviously a money guy but he thinks he's so I think Elon is so risky you know he just loves to throw it all in that he leaves little margin for air you know he's he's been really lucky with the role in his dice you know especially like when he started SpaceX and Tesla that was the ultimate role of the dice but I think she's a healthy balance to be like well here's our you know operations and now we can continue to do this without risking everything you know and starships close let me be clear starship is close to risking everything already it's just such a big fast-moving high-risk developmental program that like I I personally think you know SpaceX would probably be fine if they shut the doors on starship and just flew Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy for the next 10 years they would still be commercially valid they could not spend another dollar on research and development they could fire I don't want them to fire everyone involved in anything research and development and just ran operations on Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy and they would still be dominant for 10 years and they'd still have a business case and they'd still be fine but they're all in like all chips are pretty much as many chips as possible are in I just I don't know what else I could say is there's not I've talked to a lot of great leaders there's just not many people like Elon that would push for starship where when they're already when they're very successful company yeah sort of everyone doubted that it could be a successful company it was so close to bankruptcy and failing and then to take it into a financially viable successful company and just when you do you take on a project that again risks everything when he already did this with Falcon 1 to Falcon 9 like literally people were like what are you doing they basically signed over and were fully ramping up Falcon 9 by the time they finally had their first Falcon 1 success they had one more flight they only flew Falcon 1 successfully twice they flew it five times altogether the fourth one was successful and they flew one more time and anyone else out there would have been like let's keep flying the Falcon 1 we have a working rocket we can start you know making money and profiting and already he was risking it all and saying nope we're going from Falcon 1 to Falcon 9 was a huge huge leap you know it was that I think it's at least as big as as a leap from Falcon 1 to 9 as it is from Falcon 9 to Starship or around relatively a similar leap so it's just that same thing and people are going why are you leaping into this insane program and system and risk when you have such a you know you finally have this workhorse of a rocket that's so dominant in the industry yet they're going 10x you know it so happens that you've been selected for the deer moon mission that will fly Starship once around the moon with nine people on board you are one of those people so just pause to take that in everything that we've been talking about you are not just be reporting on you'll be a part of it so tell me about the objective of this mission and how does it feel to be a part of it well man yeah it's basically it's the willy-wonka of space like a generous yeah a generous individual purchased a ride from SpaceX as early at least as far as I know the earliest I knew about it was February 27th 2017 who's the individual you suck who might as well but at the time I'm telling a story at the time we didn't know okay great so February 27th 2017 a press release comes out from SpaceX say someone purchased a ride through us around the moon we're gonna fly someone around the moon and at the time is on a crew dragon capsule and a Falcon Heavy it's like wow and that was enough that little moment right there that's press release so first time I'm like I'm gonna make a YouTube video about this stood up turn on my camera put on my at the time space suit and I basically yelled at the camera for three minutes about someone's going around the moon you know fast forward to 2018 uh end of 2018 and at the end they introduce there's a SpaceX press conference I'm I'm there as a member of the press I'm reporting on we're going to meet this person that's going around the moon and come to find out boom they're going to be riding on starship now they change from Falcon Heavy and Dragon SpaceX is no longer going to do that they're going to upgrade them basically to starship since that are being in like a small tin can they're in this giant luxurious you know mega rocket around the moon and it comes out this individual named you soku my Zawa who is a Japanese billionaire purchased this ride and instead of inviting you know his friends and you know colleagues and whatever whoever's family members or whatever he decided that the most impactful thing he could do with this opportunity is invite more or less artists and the original thing is like artists you know journalists a painter an athlete a you know a all you know photographer videographer you know all walks of life face when they said athlete they thought of you like I know guy this guy rode ragged by once but uh so and at the time you know is like this is crazy I can't believe this is going to happen and you know he had this this vision of we're going to find people from all around the world I'm going to invite people from all around the world from different walks of life different different you know trades and I'm going to share this experience so that they can share it with the world and really have an impact much greater than you know any one country or any one individual or any you know set of military trained you know astronauts could could do I'll for up a new perspective beautiful I literally I mean at the press conference I cried like I had a couple tears my eyes I was like this is so cool because you just pause on that so he goes by mz mz yep how incredible is that it's I'd like I think it's you often don't realize the importance of individuals in human history like they they define because this this could be we were talked about the importance of Elon in particular you know most of the work is done by large groups of people there are collective intelligence that we band together but like these individuals can be the spark of the catalyst of that progress and I mean just this idea of getting not just civilians which is already incredible but civilians with a sort of an artistic flame that burns inside them they're able to communicate whatever they do are able to communicate something about that experience and it's just a genius idea to spend quite probably a very large amount of money for that I mean it's it's it's it's it's it's it and that will be part of history yeah and it's easy these days for people to be cynical you know especially about like spaceflight and wealthy individuals but really in my opinion and maybe you know just the time I was just so couldn't believe this this idea you know I'm someone that has studied a lot about you know the Apollo program the people that have been to the moon and they're incredible individuals incredible individuals but they're so saturated with tasks you know and they're military trained and often that they didn't really have the luxury of just being able to soak in the experience of going around or to the moon and seeing the moon up close with your own eyes like that just psychologically has to be insane and so to have this opportunity to be able to observe our closest celestial neighbor with your own eyes and your sole purpose is to soak it in and share it and communicate and create with the rest of our planet like that to me is just beautiful so that is the objective of the mission that right there is the objective of the mission and how does it feel to be selected as one of the nine to do it it's it's it's a it's a gradient it's slowly it's doing a few things since I've known it's become um I think the closer it gets the more excited and the more nervous I get you know it's a more real it become the more real it becomes you know the announcement was a big uh it just got announced at the end of 2022 publicly um who's involved and so you know prior to that like I had you know each step of the selection process you know there's a pretty comprehensive selection process with interviews and stuff each each step I'd try not to get my hopes up and frankly like this let me be clear this was not something that like I've always wanted to do you know it's not like I'm out there I didn't start doing YouTube videos because I wanted to even go to space like none of that I and I've said hilarious they have probably said dozens or hundreds of times on air like yeah I don't ever want to go to space because it's not like my it's not a driving force it's not really a thing I even really truly pictured or let myself fantasize about frankly so each step of the selection process I didn't really let myself dream about it too much or you know but it kind of it would kind of chip away like oh my god this is actually becoming more real this is actually more more of an opportunity and I get equally more nervous too like you know frankly it is it's I've you know I've seen spaceflight stuff go wrong of you know I think about this stuff a lot so like yeah I get more nervous but I also get more excited about that opportunity like it's an opportunity that how can you pass and it's still I still have to actually stop pause think and actually realize the reality that like that I am going to the moon I'm going to see the moon up close flying around the moon I'm sorry some people get mad when I say going to the moon since I'm not landing on it but flying around the moon seeing the far side of the moon with my own eyes and seeing earth and seeing the earth rise behind it yeah it's going to I just I can't I can't tell you what it's going to be like and feel like so epic but it's insane to me that like we're having this conversation that that is my my reality you know like and that someone was generous enough to consider the option of sharing this with with frankly strangers yeah and the the process that they had for selecting like how how much thought and time went into the selection process is incredible you know they did a public call at the beginning of 2021 and so the the teams involved in in in wittling it down from a million applicants there's a million applicants that would do and they got it down to eight crew members and two backups yeah amazing people I would have you know I don't know how they wound up where they did but it's it's incredible I feel a very deep connection to everyone that's already involved in what can you say about the crew you've gotten the chance to meet them and talk to them and Steve Ayokes on the crew like well who else is there so you are obviously the the star athlete and who else in terms of the artists they're there so oh man we might just want to pull up just I don't totally butcher and forget anybody but because so far I haven't actually had the chance to meet everyone in person you know so far a lot of this was done during the pandemic but we've met through a couple different things we've had a couple different times to get together but so far I've not met steveochi yet or top we've been on calls and stuff I also have not yet met dev joshi who is an actor from india so yeah we can Steve steveochi american dj and producer and musician top from south korea is also a musician and a producer so this all across the world is like truly global all different kinds of walks of life yes all artists in different forms and steve is is japanese his parents are japanese but you know let born raise in the united states yemi is a dancer and choreographer from the Czech Republic rianan is a fine art photographer from well england in in irland i guess she lives in both and kind of a bit of a she's all over the place technically she's Irish I guess i tim dad yep he limits me from the united states uh then you have kareem who is from england and does also is a photographer and documentarian uh does a lot of work with oceanography and uh and volcanoes so he does really incredible work Brendan hauls the documentarian and filmmaker dev joshi uh sorry Brendan is also from the united states dev joshi is an indian actor i believe also i believe he's also already been producing and things he's very young i think he's only like 19 or 20 and he's i mean he's been acting since he was like five years old or something he's uh he's a a bali wood star like he is a star in indian which is really cool right um katelyn fairington from the united states is an Olympic gold medalist snowboarder so she believe it or not is the athlete not me right and she's one of the backup crew members as so as me from japan who's a dancer it's amazing it's such an interesting group i mean is there something else you could say about mz obliya sakama you sakama is that so he uh he's also a musician so he was actually in like some kind of punk hardcore japanese bands in the early in the nineties and stuff and early 2000s he started a um a record company and and distribution and sales ended up in in fashion and um owns one of the biggest fashion companies in japan and i just become a fine art collector and just kind of a philanthropist and and he's been out the space already he's already not only been to space like you know he's been to the international space station he's been on orbit and on the ISS and so he what's cool is like you know there's talks of when there's frankly to be to be honest like we still i still don't know all of the details about this you know we're not yet into training i kind of always assumed prior that there'd be some professional astronaut you know when they talked about it in 2018 there's talks of we'll have a professional astronaut on board but realistically now like mz is a trained astronaut you know he has trained a lot like six months you know plus to be able to fly on soyuz so as far as like it's good to know for me that i have someone on the crew that has experienced with spaceflight has trained and has some knowledge on spaceflight as well you know that's that is an important aspect for sure so you made an excellent video about flying in a fighter jet that i think you mentioned maybe relevant to the training is there some high level aspects to training that you anticipate that you might be able to speak to yeah so you know so far i think we can really lean on what has happened with the other um you know commercial crew missions and in private missions like the inspiration for mission or axiom uh we're SpaceX flu individual night they trained for about six months a lot of like reading manuals and learning the spacecraft yeah you're gonna do like a rocky form on taj or so i hope i just get shredded i hope it's physical a lot of physical training and they're like we didn't tell them to do it it just seems to want to film self-sertness in the snow doesn't make any how was this probably always doing this i can't get him to stop punching me um so yeah hopefully uh realistically i eat that's a manual like it there's there's a physical component to all this and that's that's really i mean that that's fascinating it's also inspired in the sort of civilians can do this that's that's really interesting yeah i mean this is and to me this represents this and the other commercial space you know private spaceflight missions like this represent really a turning point like truly an inflection and again it's easy for people to be cynical that oh you know why are people wasting all this money doing spaceflight stuff it's like well i'm sure some people are saying that same thing about you know airplanes and and early aviation going like why are we can't believe those people are wasting the government you know funding these stupid planes and stuff how's this ever going to benefit me and nowadays like imagine if all the planes just stopped working it would freak out it's like reconno you would collapse it would suck you know and i you know it might be a long time before we get to that reality with spaceflight well no if if spaceflight halted today you know space assets uh all of our you know on orbit assets our life would be crippled and i don't think people realize that yeah so it's all ready we're already reliant on it yeah but now we're getting to the point where it's we're really turning that corner where it's the average person alive today you know if you're born uh you know now we're from now on i think there's a real decent chance that by the time you pass there's an opportunity to a flown in space yeah i mean i if i'm being honest i still haven't lost the the feeling of magic of flying in a airplane i often catch myself thinking like how's this real how is and like the contrast of this incredible thing that's incredibly safe flying through the air taking off and landing while everyone else just looks bored watching like i don't know uh some romantic comedy on their phone with wifi yeah so yeah it's just it's like the contrast of that is like wow we're we're incredible we're incredible as a society and it's like we we develop some amazing technology that improves almost immeasurably our quality of life and then we take it for granted and now still reach for the next thing and the next thing in life becomes more beautiful and complex and interesting and yeah it's just at the same stuff will be uh happening oh yeah uh with space travel oh it'll become mundane and boring at the point the tough thing about space travel of course uh you know i don't even know if it's such a giant leap over airplanes because airplanes are already incredible but uh the tough thing with space travel is the destination right is the uh is the is the landing on a whole lot of the worlds where there's docking with with different transport vehicles or the space station or it's landing elsewhere and it's it's it's it's really released incredible i i think you mentioned since there's uh there's artists there's filmmakers and so on and you're all of those uh on top of being a great athlete i don't know i'll just stop the running joke at this point uh but is there have you thought about um just just in general like we've offline talked about microphones and like all the different ways to film space launch uh uh for yeah rocket launches uh have you thought about the different options of like how to capture how to capture this uh uh have you have the team have been like brainstorming and thinking about this do you anticipate it being super challenging because there's so many opportunities to sort of think of how to do this so one of the the fun things to remember is that starship is huge like its internal volume is uh the pressurized volume on starship is is bigger than a 747s pressurized volume and it can take a hundred metric tons to anywhere with enough refueling 100 so we have in theory very little mass and volume constraints unlike prior all other spaceflight missions ever you you're i think you're counting you know grams down to you know and just really can't risk you know you have very defined parameters on on what you can it cannot do we're going to likely have the luxury of being able to film and capture this in a way that's just never been done before you know we won't be inhibited by mass and volume constraints like prior yeah so all that said and done I'm hoping that we'll be able to just arm ourselves to the teeth with the absolute best cameras and equipment possible backups on backups and you know and prewire you know like pre rig things starship is going to be a transportation system and it has you know it's being built from the ground up there's no reason why they can't put infrastructure in for cameras that are just housed in the vehicle you know um these are talks that I'm excited to have because I really ideally one of the things I'd love to do I'm gonna be pushing really hard to actually try live streaming from inside during the launch during the launch last stream from inside that would be incredible wouldn't that be it's possible to pull off that's really really incredible now there's the magic to the last stream because like that's real that's right there that would the world would tune in that would be truly inspiring yes to me that's one of those things a lot of people ask why they aren't doing it of course NASA and other individuals have their reasons of why not you know there's obviously some technical hurdles but now with starlink and other capabilities there's less hurdles there's obviously some transparency reasons why you know safety reasons why it might not be a great idea to live stream a risky rocket launch you know the challenger I think put a pretty bad taste in our mouth as far as publicizing an event and having every student in the United States tune in to you know tragedy but that's something I'm pushing for really hard just because I think it could be magical I think it could really connect with people in a way that hasn't been done before speaking of challenger I've you thought about the fact that you're riding a thing as we've been talking about that's that's a giant explosive powerful rocket have you have you thought about the risk of that the danger of that have you contemplated your own mortality how could I not you know I've seen with my I've seen and felt four of these prototype vehicles blow up you know with my own eyes I don't know if there's anyone else you know early days some of the you know mercury and Gemini astronauts watched failures of rockets and then got on them I don't know too many people that are dumb enough to do that though these day the stage it's it's obviously I will have to see a lot of successful launches and have to have a lot of confidence and in the engineering the data that they've developed a safe system because currently the current iteration of Starship has no abort system has no escape tower so you know dragon capsule which is currently flying people has a launch abort system it has super drako engines that either by the push of a button or by the automatic triggering of the flight computer can shoot the the capsule off of the rocket in milliseconds and pull it safely away get it far enough away that it can pull the parachutes and safely splash down Starship by all iterations I've ever seen does not have that the space shuttle also did not have that so it's not absurd to not have an abort system like it is there is you know certain engineering principles that that prove that that could be a completely valid thing and the spatial through 100 flew 133 times fully successfully it did have two failures resulting in the loss of 14 lives 85 or what sorry 98.5% success rate pretty I mean yeah there's other I've probably done things that are a lot riskier I have race motorcycles drag race motorcycles and you know written like an absolute jerk on the streets on a motorcycle I'm sure I've had a higher than a 98.5% survival rate or lower than that I mean at some point um so it's a you know yes it's risky it's scary and um I think about it a lot a lot it definitely is one of those things that I you know I I will have to see and I'm I'm in no hurry for this to happen either you know personally I'm in no hurry because it's like I would rather see this thing be developed and iterated and see 10 you know or I have to say 10 dozen but I'd be happy with a dozen fully successful like oh we've got this thing totally nailed down uh you know before I get on it but and that likely is the reality there will likely be a dozen or two or three launches because just even to get to the moon on starship they have to refuel it in orbit um so it will get to earth orbit basically empty and out of fuel so I'll have to dock with a fuel depot fill up and then go to the moon so just even get that full you know we're already talking about lawn you know a handful of launches so there will be a lot of launches before we fly would they do a test flight without humans on board to that goes to the moon or no I'm not sure I'm not sure if they'll do that exact flight profile but by then they will have already flown most likely the Artemis 3 program will have flown a starship variant to the moon that lands on the moon um so doing at that point you're pretty much I would like them to test the heat shield of that entry velocity though because it is uh you know it takes another it's about 30 percent faster to get like it to go 30 percent faster than the lower orbit to get out to a trans lunar injection and although that only sounds like oh 30 percent faster it's you know the the reentry heating experienced by a vehicle goes up by velocity uh cubed not squared so it's not even not linear so it's not like if we go twice as fast to get you see twice as much heat you know 30 percent faster 30 percent more heat it's and it's not squared it's not go twice as fast to get four times as much heat it's go twice as fast get eight times as much heat on reentry so 30 percent faster on reentry is actually a really really big deal so I would love to see that you know there's certain things that I would love to see milestones that I would love to see tested out and proven before I get on board but at the end of the day I really do believe that um just like Falcon 9 and the success of that that they're going to push it and get all the the kinks out well before anyone's on top of it nowadays Falcon 9 and Dragon is you know arguably the one of the safest most reliable and best rides you could take to space are you afraid of dying yeah yeah is this one of the first times you get to you're young yeah have you gotten the chance to think about death is one of the first times you've really contemplated it I mean yeah I mean like I said I've had I've had dumb moments on motor cycles where I kind of saw you know like I'm going to smash into this thing at 120 mile an hour and I'm so you've you've had moments when you realize it could end just like this yes where you lit it and I and I have I have for most of my adult life had dreams of falling and hitting the ground and it's just all you get it ringing your ears and all goes black and in my head I go oh shit that was it have you seen a therapist about this or uh I wonder what it means so I'm and I'm sure there's a Freudian interpretation someone in there but I'm going to also plight in my dating life no the joke is the running joke continues okay so I mean it's it's fascinating in general as I hope we'll talk about in the early days of space flight that there is there is a the task of reaching out to the stars is a fundamentally risky one you have to take risk and of course there's really rigorous safety precautions and so on but still is still a risk well and I think like most people that that for me the idea of dying isn't so much about myself it's about those affected by you know my I loved ones my family you know my girlfriend my my friends you know obviously I don't want to have this be a traumatic experience for anybody you know it's already gonna be hard like it's already I know my mom gets my my parents and family and friends are very supportive um that need know my parents are you know all about it of course but my mom is also very emotional too so you know she's so my speaking of athletes my brother-in-law has actually been on American Ninja Warrior two seasons um phenomenal athlete and even just when he competes my mom gets so emotional like she can't even hold it together seeing that so what's it gonna be like when she sees her son get on top of a skyscraper and and ascend on a column of flames into the heavens like that's going to be very difficult you know um and I've you know I've taken a lot they've seen they've seen star rays and they've seen starship they've seen a couple launches I don't know if that's gonna make it feel better I'm excited therapy I get excited therapy okay have you had that conversation with them about this like before agreeing to join I mean was that what that was or is it one of those things like um you just you don't have that conversation I suppose it's understood that there's a love there's a passion here and realistically I'm not I'm going to be convinced and statistically convinced that this is relatively safe you know like like again in the in the 99's percent safe yeah again there's things that people do every day that are less safe than this you know like you ride in the motorcycle again yeah riding the more sick doing wheelies at an over a hundred mile an hour not you do wheelies over a hunt what all right I'm not a smart guy always okay well you know formation flying the fighter jets was likely a more dangerous thing yes then what I'll be doing in spaceflight so as surreal as it is we're talking about you flying around the moon let's rewind and talk about the origin story what's the origin story of every day astronaut I used to be a professional photographer so from 2008 until the end of 2016 that was my income was photography full-time like you were an Instagram model and did but pictures of yourself with you and fitness model fitness model obviously now the uh I did I did a lot of weddings I tried 150 weddings all around the world so subjects all kinds of material like like do do portrait also a lot of portrait work and then just you know random like commercial things like you know food and beverages for businesses are like you know wheelchair ramp company I shot their product you know random whatever a professional photographer does in cedar falls Iowa you know what what did you all follow photography with a visual medium do you remember yeah I do actually remember I so I I drew up I grew up drawing constantly I I was the weird kid that my I would bring a sketchpad to the restaurants like every restaurant I was growing up until I was like 18 19 I literally would just sit there and draw or waiting for food and my parents like fostered that they would you know and I'd be the weird kid but I'd be engaging in talking but I'd be sitting there drawing and I was always obsessed with realism and like recreating and you know visualizing things and so when I got my hands on my cameras actually my dad's old pentaxe that I first shot a I don't have film camera and developing the film I didn't personally develop like you know getting the film back back in those days um you know I just was like so excited about the idea that I had this visual thing that I saw with my own eyes and now I can stop time and capture it and and show it to other people just kind of like to me that was like the ultimate form of realism was like literally showing you the photons basically that affected this film um and so I I mean now it was and I was 19 when I got my first digital SLR at Canon 20D and started shooting um and yeah I just I fell in love with it it became like I got a job at a camera store and you know basically all my extra money went into buying everything that I could at the time and I only worked there for about exactly a year before I went into pursuing photography full-time and I basically was shooting weddings that I could travel and pay like you know afford to be able to do some big trips every year and and develop some kind of you know portfolio of traveling and not necessarily like not for you know I guess Instagram wasn't much of a thing at the time it's really just I like making big prints and having them displayed and that kind of stuff and pretty are you still a Canon guy you still a Canon a little elitist no no I I moved around I I did Sony for a bit I still kind of shoot mostly Canon glass but adapted to either Sony was like lenses sorry like Canon glasses look at you what do you think about these things that I'm using Sony a7 for great great see yeah let's uh I've uh I've been you know I googled around just trying to find a camera that can do video and photography pretty well and obviously going with just like generic lenses prime I resisted everything my whole journey with these camera thing I'm trying to figure stuff out it's like prime lens it seems so stupid so prime lens is like a fixed zoom thing yep it's like why because I'm about going to like Ukraine and thinking it's similar like uh yeah very similar to space light but you're very constrained because you're going into an unknown environment you're going to a war zone you're going into a front you don't know what like you don't know anything right and there's like a little suitcase you have to like see figure out like how do you film this what's what's robust um what gives you like a good image versus a flexibility versus the weight this weight is important there yet to think about like can you really bring like a bunch of zoom lenses and all that kind of stuff so I had to learn really quickly but yeah that um it's a whole journey that you've already been on but it's it's nice to have a beginner like me like to explore that I think there is um there's a nice thing just like as we've been talking about with the beginner's mind to um um not let equipment get in the way of like what your vision is of what a thing should look like yeah sometimes like especially if you're a professional videographer photographer cinema cinematographer whatever you call it you can like fetishize equipment too much you get so much equipment and I've interacted it because I've been trying to learn from other people that have so much more experience than me I think their advice is often like uh very pushing a lot of equipment versus like the final thing like how do you create the art of it like because to me even photography is just like storytelling and so like a lot of the discussion to me that I enjoy uh especially talking to creative people is like the the the final story like how and I've learned you know like light light light is a weird thing like it's so interesting it's so interesting how you can create a motion with light like with a little you can take a like a a phone and like you light your face in different ways and like it changes the emotion oh yeah it's so weird I'm like holy shit like because like that's the conversation I want to have if people give me advice how to light a scene all that kind of stuff is great but the reality is that a little bit of light in a different direction that you have to understand how that changes the contour on your face and everything and the expression that your face can like the the expression that could be effectively communicate under under different lighting conditions and then like the mystery of like having some of your face uh in darkness and some not uh when you can only see the eyes and not the face when the back on is visible or not I mean the the yeah it's yeah it's all just like this interesting art form that can be so powerful when you're telling a story well and what's fun for with me with photography and rockets they're both like the ultimate story of compromise because when you start learning about photography learn about you know how the aperture affects both your exposure but also your depth of field higher shutter speed affects both your exposure your depth of field how the you know of medium format camera versus a crop camera it affects you know everything is a compromise and price versus performance you know like there's always a compromise you're always literally doing like a trade study of what can I afford but it's my outcome like blah blah blah blah how fast is the how to focus or whatever same with rockets like there's a million choices and every single one of them affects every single thing so there's always all these trades and it's so cool that you can see uh the same it totally different outcomes based on the same like requirements you know like do X then here's how we're gonna do it and you know two teams of people come with a wildly different things one did you fall in love with rockets so yeah so the the story kind of keeps going for me saws doing sorry yeah yeah yeah top of tie every man will get we'll go on a deep raffle there so um so it ended uh you know I'm through all this doing a lot of weddings I was already getting saturated and feeling like I'm not being as creative you know you can only shoot them so many weddings before you're like well now we do this pose this pose this pose you know even if like they're amazing places like you know in front of a castle in germany or something I'm still like well I didn't do the day I'm I'm not being very creative you know so I remember craving like some some projects and so I was sitting at my friend's coffee shop in my hometown cedar falls a sidecar coffee and I'm sitting on this red couch and I see this article from I think gizmodo and I said you could own the flight stick of an Apollo command module and I knew enough to know what that meant but that's really about the end of my space knowledge and so I clicked on it the click bake got me like I'm like oh yeah I'm gonna see if you know and I see that the minimum bit was like $250,000 like okay no I can't own the Apollo joystick you know but I got me on this website called our auction and so I started scrolling through that looking for things that hadn't been been on and they had like you know at the time they're doing a huge space auction and so I'm looking for things just out of curiosity fun these are cool like starting at really you know like I said I like space but I wasn't like in love with it or anything but I'm very just see all the stuff like it's so cool look at all this old history stuff and it up seeing a there's an article for a a VMS TK 44 flight suit high altitude flight suit that came from the Soviet Union and looks you know it's like a big fighter jet fighter pilot suit very similar to like the SR-71 like kind of pumpkin suit Sam my pressure suit with a you know full helmet I mean it full it looks like a space suit you know for all intents and purposes it's kind of like a space suit and I just bit on it you know I bit like I think three hundred twenty five dollars and next thing you know like it arrives at my door yeah and from that point on like literally I got it out I immediately try to put it on and the first thing that I do is almost die in it because I closed the helmet down on myself and locked it and didn't know how to unlock it so I'm literally and so as soon as I seal it up I'm realizing I can't breathe I'm going to run out of air so luckily like there's a hose you know that kind of that long hose thing that normally plug into an air supply had a little plug on the end of it so just unplugged it and was able to temporarily breathe through the hose until I figured out the locking mechanism so there was my almost that was my mortality rate thing right there so that was probably above a 98 below 90 year there for panicking inside yeah a few seconds already reading like my premature obituary like idiot dies alone in space suit in this living room you know like just imagine yeah that would be like Darwin award for sure for sure so so I get the space suit and it kind of literally take my breath away you should feel bad for that one you introduce Creed to me so you should feel bad about that one so I ended up like the space to kind of like more or less haunted me because it kind of just it's saddened like my living room for a long time and I didn't know what to do with it and I actually had a friend who is also a photographer wanted to do like a photo he was just kind of taking pictures randomly he's like hey bring your space suit over we'll do a picture yeah go all right you know I walk across the street literally live across the street Taylor and I put the space suit on I took this funny picture me like this is awesome and I got a lot of like fun out of like creating a character you know of everyday astronaut or at the time I guess I didn't know an astronaut and then that kind of just continued I was like thinking a more and more funny situations where I could have this astronaut on earth doing mundane everyday things and came up with the name everyday astronaut and originally it was just literally a photo project like this whole art series of an astronaut doing these things these funny whimsical you know silly mundane things but I was researching a lot about like you know I was trying to hide Easter eggs like I was gonna hide in like the you know the echocardiogram of Alan Shepherd you know like his first flight into space and photoshopping that into pictures and like you know doing all these little like facts about space flight but they're just hidden little elements in these photos and man doing that I just fell in love with it I just was going over every little detail that I could learning I just couldn't stop learning and I was I was getting excited because I was like I could be teaching people about all this exciting stuff and all the cool things people figured out you know 40 years ago 50 years ago and was trying to portray that through images on Instagram and you know it took me a little while but eventually I realized you know on Instagram you're retention rate you're lucky if you get like two seconds of someone looking at an image you know or maybe nowadays 60 seconds have a quick little Instagram shorter something but yeah it doesn't give you a chance to really teach to explore a little topic that you felt like you felt the curiosity about the thing there's so much to learn here so much so so many opportunities to have a light bulb go off or someone to be like this is awesome and so yeah I think I started so at the by the end of 2016 like throughout 2016 I realized I want to be done doing photography as a profession and I want to pursue everyday astronaut but I didn't know what it meant yet I just knew like I had this thing you know and at that time I'd been doing it for roughly two years and had you know seen I don't know like 50,000 Instagram followers or something I thought like I could just be a full-time influencer now you know like just go around taking pictures of myself in a space suit and doing public appearances and write a children's book or something I don't know I don't know what this thing is I'll figure it out you know and so it basically I gave myself like a runway of one year of 2017 of like I'm gonna throw stuff for the wall and see what sticks so I was doing like Twitch streams I was playing Kerbal Space program which is like a video game like a physics-based rocket building simulation game but it's also like it's fun and silly because you're not playing with like humans you're playing with these little Kerbal like little alien guys and it's fun and silly you know streaming that on Twitch and doing things and and doing posting some of those things onto YouTube but finally like I said it actually happened to be February 27 2017 when SpaceX had that announcement that their flights were around the moon that I'm I gotta tell people about this and stood there and made my first like produced YouTube video and I didn't want it to be over three minutes it was afraid that'd be way too long for YouTube and I got it down to like I don't know two minutes and 40 seconds or something and that video was wearing the space suit and very like horrible audio it looks like it was colored graded by a seven-year-old with a tan marker or something like it just looks terrible sounds horrible I'm yelling no one's happy but but the video you know did relatively well like I had no followers on YouTube like I had you know maybe 102 or something is the video still up yeah that's great okay that's a watch that's so cringy and as it should be you know your first video should be terrible if it's not terrible then you spent too long trying to make it yeah so um the the thing that clicked for me is I had very little audience and all of a sudden that video kind of took off you know relatively I think it got like 10,000 or 12,000 views and I was like holy crap that's way more engagement than I'm having famous I'm famous now 10,000 people that's almost my whole town first of all that is kind of crazy like 10,000 people is crazy yeah crazy like if you if you had 500 people attend a thing that you do they'll be like you're like a rock star it's crazy is that we lose perspective yeah we lose perspective very quickly very quickly so I'd made another video um this one I spent more time on and I had before photography actually I used to do like wedding videography too so I had done my woes with photography and weddings and stuff I hated video like I thought video was the worst took so long to edit you know I love photography it's like boom you snap me boom post you're done in an hour you know and video it's like this whole cumbersome thing so I thought I'll never do video and here I was making this long what it's time seemed like a long seven minute long YouTube video about how the Falcon 9 lands and again like that one I posted and it actually it did really bad and I was really upset I'm like I spent two weeks on the stupid video you know worked really hard scripting and blah blah blah and then it you know I had like a thousand views or something it did much worse in the first video and I was so upset and I kind of like was ready to keep throwing more spaghetti at the wall to see what's gonna stick for every day astronaut and I think it was like a month or two later I happened to like you know check the analytics on YouTube and also that video like kind of yeah took off and I got like four year 50 or 60 thousand views or something I was like no way and it just kept you know that just honed it in more like okay YouTube will bring a bigger like bring an audience to me as opposed to like Instagram I had to find and you know try to get the audience to come in this was like they were gonna do the legwork so if I make decent videos and I realized like really the fun thing for me was explaining a topic that was scary and intimidating and try to make it you know fun and engaging what were some of the struggles of building up a YouTube channel so for people who don't know once again you have a YouTube channel called every day astronaut and there's some incredible videos on it so what was the what was the some of the challenges and the struggles in the early days definitely like at first you're not gonna find your own voice and I know like even you know Jimmy talked to you about that like how your first video is gonna suck you don't you're not gonna be yourself you're gonna be nervous you're gonna be not gonna know the tone the pace the the things that are interesting and actually originally I I had constraints I was really worried about making a short video because I thought there's no one who's gonna watch the three minute video and then a seven minute video and pretty quickly I realized like YouTube as a whole was kind of changing but also there's always that historic backbone of like 22 minutes of programming for 30 minutes spot on TV like no one goes over 22 or 44 minutes enough of the full hour special or whatever like that is the absolute limit of what a human being can watch you know basically it was what I thought yeah and slowly I just kept playing and getting longer and and actually more and more in depth into the topics and instead of getting like pushback you know and being like this is so boring I realized as long as it's like as I was walking people through the whole step you know giving them all the context they need they're happy to get as deep into the weeds as I can get them and so that just kind of fed the snowball to skip rolling and I'm like all right and you know before you know and I'm making hour long videos like an hour long is is more or less a normal length on my channel for a for a produced video and they're really really in depth but I love like that process of trying to preemptively kind of guess what the questions might be and and you know part of that is like we do like script read through is with like our supporters and do like cuts of videos and people a decent amount of people see it before it goes public and I would get those questions out of the way you know we get those people asking the questions and then I love nothing more than trying to you know get all those questions answered by the end of the video a question about being a creator on YouTube that could be a challenging psychological aspect to it which is like you might invest a huge amount of your effort into a thing in it doesn't receive much attention at all you know there's something about YouTube and in general social media that makes you feel really crappy about that if you let it if you really look at the numbers it's very very difficult not to pay attention to that I mean that's the reason why I turn off numbers on my on my interface for stuff that I've created because I just see it having a negative effect on your mind but even then you still it still has an effect I mean your your epic video on the the history of Soviet rockets comes to mind and we'll talk about that in a second but it's called people to check it out the entire Soviet rocket engine family tree so that's something you've researched for two years yeah right you put your heart and soul into it there's a lot of passion there's a lot there's a long journey it's I think about like an hour and a half video is there like is there challenges is there like how difficult is that to put so much of yourself into a video and it maybe not do so well yeah that that's the that's the struggle for sure honestly especially as like as we grow I try to make better and better videos which means hiring more and more people to do you know higher-end animations and spend more time editing and shooting and scripting and just at the end of the day like it still can't be just losing money and I have videos that definitely lose a lot of money because I you know hire 3D artists and stuff and and I was so certain the Soviet rocket engine video I thought was just purely gonna be a passion project I did I honestly was like if it ever crosses a million I it's a home run because I had to cross like a couple of million now I think it's a little over two which is insane to me like I just really thought this was more something just to put on the shelf as a resource almost for myself you know like just to kind of have that knowledge bank and something I've always wanted to straighten out in my own head and and kind of know the history a little bit better but come to find out like it took a while you know as a slow churn well does that I remember when I when you first released it and I that's when I watched it I remember like this so few views yeah I remember being just sad like I was like sad about the state of the world because I know how much love you put into it how like how much I don't know I add to me for some reason that somehow would directly connect to huge views but see you know what made me sad is like if you use a different thumbnail or a different title that could affect the popularity I know and then I just could imagine the torment you're going through what if I use the different thumbnail I it's that Jimmy the Mr. Beast yeah torment like just a slightly different title or slightly different and I everything I have videos is ironically the last like I don't know five videos I've produced are horribly flopping like some of my worst videos have ever made statistically the the interesting one is like the you summarize incredible video you summarizing the people should go watch about all the the awards video for 2022 like all the cool stuff that happened to into it too I remember that not being that popular there's a few ones recently they're not that popular like writing a fighter jet I thought I thought that was going to be easy like one or two million I don't know if I've paid the flights off to go there you know what I mean like in that video it makes no sense and frankly here's here's at the end of the day yeah I I realize like I have lately especially the last like a year or two kind of disconnected from the that aspect of it I'm super fortunate I have very generous like patreon support and people like can help me sustain to produce people go support support to my patreon well it's that but the as you know as a creator like that is what keeps the lights on it and makes it so you know I can go this deep like if I didn't have that if I had to rely solely on like YouTube ad revenue I mean I just they'd be super different videos I wouldn't spend as much time researching because I just you know they just be more glossed over it's like a hurry to turn them out so I can keep the machine going and I have this incredible freedom to really dive into a topic like a video that I've been working on out for almost three months is how to start a rocket engine and let me tell you it's not as easy as one might think or I guess as it is as difficult as you might think I mean it's an insane topic and what do you mean by starting me like the ignition yeah like how do you physically get them running you know like there's all these you know the valves and the if the turbine the turbine you know that we were talking about earlier like that has to run on the pumps but it itself is powering the pumps so how do you get that like chicken and egg how do you get that thing started you know there's tons of it's so cool there's so many ways and so for me you know that required reading a lot and talking to people that know a lot more than me and just really trying to make sure I understand enough of it to explain it and try to weave a narrative you know and so that video's three months in the making we're still probably another two or three weeks out and it's I don't expect I mean I think this one will do relatively well you know but in the grand scheme of YouTube like still child's play you know but I'm okay and I'm okay with that I've I'm at that point actually where I am okay with that it still stings and I'm more worried about just like can I continue to do it at this quality and at this level if it's losing money you know what I mean so it's three is a trade off and I am kind of having to navigate that but but you have sort of the depth of the impact you have is is a is a thing that YouTube can't give you numbers on but it's it's a really important thing to sort of remember that it's really not just about the YouTube numbers or it's off for for people like you they're basically educating and revealing the brilliance in a technology that will make humans a multi planetary species and give hope to millions of young minds that will build that future I mean that's immeasurable that's not just the views that's uh well you know it's that's really important just sort of remember as you're creating it that's something I I I tried to think about as well so like views um yeah and that and that becomes more no matter I realize that more and more like every day you know the more the channel matures the more I realize the importance of it as an overall mission as opposed to like you know in the first year to it's a rat race of of growth and of popularity and all that kind of stuff you know and you feel that you feel that it's it's a driving force these days not so much just because that will wear you out very quickly so back to the Soviet rocket video the epic video probably the most epicly researched video you've done and it's like it's it's truly an epic video uh so what uh again called the entire Soviet rocket engine family tree took you two years to research what are some fascinating things you've learned about the history of rocket engines in the Soviet Union and in general um through a process of making that video the the coolest thing to me is how it's this weird blend for the Soviet Union went through a an insane iteration process and made so many engines like I didn't even touch you know any like maneuvering thrusters or missile engines like I only really dealt with main propulsion engines on orbital rockets and there's still way too many to talk about I mean it's still dozens and dozens of engines and I I could have gone deeper into this which is hilarious um they iterated so much made a new engine for just at the drop of a hat yet they still also like did super primitive things you know they they physically are still today lighting the main combustion chambers of the Soyuz engines of the RD-1 or 7 or RD-1 or 8 with essentially match sticks like they literally stick a t shaped thing up into the chamber and have a a pyrotechnic and in it that ignites the actual propellants in the combustion chamber it's not the most elegant solution in the world yeah they're still using that so they went from like the whole spectrum of like it's a the mixture of like make it better faster harder stronger goodter all the way around to also if it ain't broke don't fix it it's like it employs all of the above so it's like it's a lot of innovation but also they use duct tape it's like all of it together yes uh hum that's exactly like that's exactly the way to put it and and they did things that aren't saying they developed a full flow stage combustion cycle engine this engine had it been used I mean it would have put the F it was same relative size as the F-1 engine on the Saturn V like in that same category way up there of like you know 6.7 like mega-dutants of thruster something around and it's in the F-1 is like seven or something it's it's huge yet way more complicated way more efficient way just better engine in that sense as far as far as performance goes yet it never flew it never left the stand you know they they'd never built the rocket around it the N1 which was the the you know the most powerful rocket to a flown so far to date um like it never made it through its first stage burn and all four attempts failed spectacularly and yet it had so much technology on it that was still unrivaled today almost like finally now we're beating it the NK 33s that they developed for that rocket like finally today were to the point of like having better engines than they built in the 60s yeah what sends out to you uh from the N1 family of rocket engines well it's interesting because the N1 was the connect could snets off design bureau and he was actually an aircraft manufacturer so he was one of the first people outside of kind of the the missile and rocket program you know he had all these other big wigs kind of in the other okay bees that were developing missiles and rockets and then all of a sudden here comes uh nickel-like could snets off who um had never developed a rocket engine and so his first attempt at a rocket engines was the NK series NK 15 NK 33 and they're amazing they're brilliant there are these wonderful closed cycle oxygen rich engines um that were that were awesome there were awesome engines and that were you know because I love that because he has direct um boss he eats since he wasn't necessarily in the in the air space you know are in the I guess the rocket missile defense world um he didn't have to uh uh at the fall of the Soviet Union he didn't have to give away all of his things to the same people as the other people so he hid you know like 80 of his engines and a hanger and uh and then we still literally use them in the United States we used all together I think it was like eight or ten of them um repurposed them as they're called a J 26s in the United States but like we still were flying Soviet rocket engines in the 2000s because they were better than engines we are building today like that's to me that's my favorite fact about the end one of rocket engines that they're still that good that that they're the the best choice for at the time um orbital sciences some of the culture that engineering has led to these things that still work it's incredible yeah um you said that the RD171 is one of the coolest engines ever made why is that yeah oh so one of the fun things about the Soviet engines is it'll look like more a lot of their engines look like multiple engines because you see multiple nozzles you see multiple combustion chambers need to think oh obviously you know the nozzle is the engine right but what they actually would do the the real the real heart and the real power of the rocket engine actually comes from the turbo pumps comes from the pumps themselves and you know as we talked about earlier that that includes the turbine and the in the actual pumps that flow the propellant into the chambers and so the Soviet Union was incredible at developing these closed cycle high powered turbo pumps but if you try to scale the combustion chamber too big you end up with what's called combustion instability you're you're you're having you have such a large surface area of crazy flames you know and combustion happening they can get these weird pockets and oscillations and frequencies and and they just couldn't make big combustion chambers and never figured it out they never quite well they they did actually kind of figured out but they they didn't like it so they ended up just shrinking down and having small combustion chambers and just sending splitting the pipes basically instead of one fuel pump going into one pipe going into one combustion chamber and one oxidizer pipe pipe going into one combustion chamber they'd split it off into two or four engine into two or four combustion chambers and it's kind of spread that work around so they didn't experience this combustion instability so the R171 is like still to date the most powerful rocket engine ever built the turbo pump is insane I don't even remember how many you know like 200,000 horsepower something comes out of that turbo pump in order to flow the amount of propellant necessary at those rates and at those pressures into the combustion chamber so it has four chambers and it's just it's just an absolute marvel of engineering and yeah and then the cool thing too is specifically with the R171 its engine all four of those nozzles can actually pivot and rotate I just now as I'm explaining this realized that has to mean that they have joints like flexible joints in the high pressure pump lines in order to like I never I'm this is the realization I'm having right now because normally you put the gimbal above the turbo pump like the the the mount where the engine swivels so that you have low pressure coming from the tanks into the pumps and then you just have a straight you know fixed pipe flowing into the engine so you don't have to bend that pipe and have it be dynamic if they had the four chambers moving independently from each other that means those four chambers all had to have a flexible high pressure pipe going which I don't even I don't know if that's why am I just now realizing this yeah so there's engineering challenges with that insane I never even thought that was a thing you would ever could do honestly I would I got a look into why and how and what yeah wonder why that the design decision was made so the easier thing to do normally is you would keep those nozzles fixed then fix like say the the Soyuz engine the RD107 and 108 they have a fixed main combustion chambers and they and they use these little vernier or some people got mad at me for saying vernier and verner engines that swivel themselves and those provide your your control authority so that the main chambers stay fixed and then you get your your roll and your pitch and your yacht of auxiliary thrusters by the way did did you get anything wrong in that video that people told you about yeah I had a few things yep first off we had a graphic error where we actually we you know we copied and pasted a lot of our like after effects projects so our nuclear engines one of them on screen says that it runs on RP1 it does not it has basically all the wrong stats we just didn't catch it in the edit you know that we literally copying and pasted and I say it right on screen but the like in the voiceover but on screen is wrong the other thing and I'm excited to ask you about this uh-oh I watched and I spoke with a lot of Russian speaking individuals we had a lot of research assistants that were reading and blah blah I tried really hard to learn how to pronounce Sergei Koreliov's name and I'm still gonna say it wrong no matter what I but I my understanding yes and from listening to native speakers is closer to Krelyev then it is Korelev yeah definitely Sergei Pavlovich Koreliov see I will never say it that perfectly but I know it's not just Korelev I mean again the the English translation of it likely I should have just said Korelev and said I'm saying it the dumb America way but but you rolled your r comrade excellent so let me just ask you in a difference in culture because you've reached there so many rockets from so many different arrows the set in five and just everything you're seeing now are there some interesting differences especially when you look at the space race between the Soviet rocket engineers and efforts versus the American the others I mean there's definitely huge huge cultural changes and the fun thing is that they kind of spawned from the same they they had the same starting place both you know the Soviet rocket engines and Americans all came from the Nazi V2 rocket and the A4 engine literally physically spawned from that because at the fall of you know at the end of world war two we took a handful of German scientists and the Soviets took a handful of German scientists and they both got their own a little bit some blueprints here and there and the others got some blue so we literally have the same it's a weird thing or we're starting from the same like thing and letting two two divergent you know divergent paths go crazy on their own development so it's really fun to see the cultural differences one of the things the United States did is they really would kind of take an engine and and just perfect it more or less and then and not really evolve that much like they they I don't know and I don't know why I actually needed to do a history lesson on all of the US engines but it's literally like as far as orbital class engines before now it's like a dozen or two you know it's it's a tenth the amount of the Soviets and the Soviets just literally made up a new engine every time they had a new like they wouldn't and it was like a completely different engine yeah so I just yeah I wonder if there's some aspect to the culture not I don't want to overstate it but there is more of a safety culture I think in the United States and I think if you care about safety or rather like you have your more risk averse yeah so you care about safety more about the value of human life and the risk taken there that you will iterate less so yeah I think the Soviets especially in the early aspect of the program I don't want to overstate this is some of it is just the through stories you just air anecdotes there are more willing to take risks yeah risk with human life risks with the space craft for example the first orbital space flights from the Soviet Union the the cosmonaut had to eject out of the capsule and parachute to landing yes that's not very well like known and it wasn't they were hit that even from history is as best they could at first because they were slightly ashamed they couldn't have a full recovery system with their spacecraft they could physically recover it but they wouldn't have been able to recover the cosmonaut in one piece so instead had them just eject out of the thing and parachute to safety like that's insane and so there definitely was some some extra risks and but also a freedom to just like push things to the limits and try everything you know they threw all the spaghetti on the wall that's funny that most people probably don't even know the first person the space in America and obviously everybody knows that in the that it's like it's it's kind of interesting how the space race and even world war two even like the history books you ask most Americans they think that America won World War Two like without America like the the the real heroes of World War Two is America yes British people they say and everybody has a pretty good justification like without Britain without Churchill their Hitler would have taken over the world and I think probably the strongest case is the Soviet Union case that they're the ones that won the war the reasons the strongest case is where most of the fighting happened right most of the death happened most of like most of the destruction but everyone has their perspective and certainly on the space race you know the great accomplishment is the first man moon yeah I'm gonna say and then you're a Gagarin and from the Russian perspective first man in space and that I think still persist and some of that in healthy forms is probably constructive to a little bit of competition just pushes all the all the great scientists on your side but you know what do you think about this uh you're a Gagarin mission of the first human in space and the Stalk Commission in 1961 just in general when you when you look back at that time leading to the the the first man on the moon yeah April 12 1961 year is night baby that's uh yeah it's it's insane what's insane to me is is the first person in space didn't just go to space he went into orbit you know you're a Gagarin flew around the earth in orbit and reentered that's a monumental task compared to suborbital so the United States did two suborbital flights in that same year I believe in that same year at least I'm pretty sure in 1961 they flew for the first time orbitally in 1962 so they weren't terribly far behind to get a human in orbit like in the grand scheme of things you know 10 months difference but at the same time like the fact that so we just went straight to flying someone in orbit is monumental and I'm sure they did not do excessive rigorous testing here because there is a space race and you have the first is important just imagine being Yuri what do you say when they're like launching them like let's go or something like uh I mean you're taking uh we're talking about you being a starship like you're taking a pretty big risk being launched out into orbit oh hopefully a lot less risk than what Yuri went through so Yuri Yuri the crazy thing remember the those matchsticks we talked about yeah you know there's there's 20 main combustion chambers on Soyuz and there's for and it 12 more vernier engines that all need to be lit so you're right at you're sitting on top of this this booster and they light all of those 32 combustion chambers on the ground and then it has this insane separation process between what the Soviet Union would call the first stage in the second stages but we would call it like the core stage in the boosters um they all for these boosters have to peel away perfectly from the core stage simultaneously you know if one of them sticks on mission failed if one of them doesn't eject properly your drags into the other tank you know you're it's it's it's a goner so the the staging process of of the Soyuz is in the same to me that that ended up working out I was just the technology in Soyuz and I mean more or less that same rocket is what's still flying humans that are cosmonauts from you know Roscosmos and going to the international space station are flying on a variant of that Soyuz rocket still today it's still like that big of a workhorse what do you think about Roscosmos as it stands today it's history in its future in comparison to NASA and other national efforts and in comparison to commercial space like yeah I mean utmost respect for the engineers involved and you know everything that's happened I think a Nurglemosh is like still some of the one of the greatest engine manufacturers when they have the funding to do so but man it seems like they're they're falling from grace as far as space prowess you know the Roscosmos went from having I think they got very comfortable at the top of you know from 2011 until until 2022 or until 2020 there were the only ride to the international space station since then like it started I feel like in 2018 honestly I think that's kind of one things that's the first time I specifically remember a pretty nasty like thing happened in 2018 I think it was a Soyuz mission to the international space station had one of the boosters not the attach and had to have an abort but you know that that happened then all of a sudden next thing you know there's a progress being docked to the ISS a couple years ago that spun the ISS cartwheeled the ISS out of control followed a few months later the peers module docks the international space station spirals the international space station out of control again with like a thrust are getting fixed on there's a hole in in as a Russian segment there's well I think the most recent one right now there's a Soyuz dock to the ISS that has a puncture in it and it's leaking coolant and will not be returning humans on it so they're actually having to fly up and uncrewed Soyuz and that one likely wasn't a manufacturing error it probably was like a micromediate puncture rendering spacecraft unusual we don't know for sure yet but it's just really been like this fall from grace were they had they have all the potential they have some of the best engines some of the the best rockets and especially like right before the collapse of the Soviet Union the the brawn shuttle and the inertia rocket were incredible had they been able to evolve that into brawn too and they're usable anergy they had a fully reusable anergy on the drawing board and like I honestly fully think they could have done it as a possible to return to a place where there is friendly competition between nations that ultimately um unites and inspires the peoples of these different worlds these very different worlds that have especially recently come to conflict over the over the war in Ukraine the tension builds uh the war the conflict the suffering is actually creating more and more division creating more and more hate I think as we've talked about I think science and engineering and especially the most epic version of engineering which is rocket space travel unites people um unites people even in a time of tension conflict and war so do you have a hope that we can return to that place I think historically space flight has been one of the most bonding things you know we look at we have countless examples of you know cold war enemies coming together and working together lending a hand um a polythirteen for example of course you know there is the potential that who knew where is going to reenter since it was not in the plan trajectory at all for reentry and the Soviet Union said hey wherever you know wherever they land like we'll help you guys out basically you know and that was a pretty big thing at the time obviously um we also in 1975 saw the Apollo Soyuz mission which was a Apollo spacecraft docking with the Soyuz spacecraft first time there's international collaboration and again 1975 still very admits the cold war yet we have this collaboration um that I don't know what else could have done that you know I mean and think about what actually takes to do that you have to come up with a a docking module that is you know like that takes the two different air environments and the two different docking systems and talk to the engineers and mission planners and figure out you know train together the cosmonauts and the astronauts trained together and got to know each other they were crossing boundaries and borders and coming together for this mission and even if it was totally a fluff piece like even if it was totally this like you know cynical you know just trying to make a pretty face for everybody for the cameras or something obviously it's still had an impact yeah the symbolic impact but there's also the practical impact I mean a lot of people have to work together yes and that and that has a ripple effect on the culture of the different engineers uh yeah 100 percent and even just the the astronauts and the cosmonauts involved like think about what what probably went through their heads during this process of like going from oh my god I'm going to have to work with them to getting to know them and then sharing meals and space like that's a crazy transformation of timelines and I would love to I do think that spaceflight has the the ability to bond us in the United because it is ultimately you know this little tiny little planet we're floating around on you know it's the only it is the boundary that we all share you know you only can you it only takes you getting off this planet to realize oh my god we're all neighbors we're all living in the same house together and I I do think ultimately you know as we continue to expand our horizons and expand our exploration that it has the potential to to unite us more than then it has the potential to divide us so one of the potential conflicts of the 21st century that I think everyone wants to avoid both in the cyberspace and in the hot war space cold war hot war all kinds of war all kinds of economic conflict is between the United States and China so China is going full steam ahead in developing a space program uh doing a lot of incredible work like you mentioned 64 launches in 2022 with two failures but you know moving straight ahead and by the way of the space station we had a lot of startups like a lot of the launches were from brand new companies so to have two failures out of 64 I mean that's still and if you look at operational launches it was flawless do you see a pathway where there's again in that same way collaboration or friendly competition between all the different uh companies and nations of the United States and China in the in the next as we push towards the moon uh Mars and beyond I held a dumb hope that China would actually be allowed to sign on to the Artemis Accord to be able to take part in this next step towards the moon I'm just imagining if like if they provided a you know a propulsion module or a land or something and we actually came together to land on the moon instead of having another space race you know it's like it would have been so cool and yeah I still am hopeful that similar to to back in the cold war that we might have something like that someday where we actually are collaborating and it feels like sometimes we're really close to that and then other times it feels like we're really far from that and it just sucks because I know and you know I try really hard on my channel to to always separate and celebrate the work being done you know because at the end of the day there's someone that's just going home to their family clocking in hours working really hard on on pushing their program and and and doing engineering work you know and it's uh we don't get to choose where we're born and what we're born into um so I really like to avoid you know the political aspects of things and the geopolitical aspects and just appreciate the science and the science we're seeing and the the progress that China is doing in the last 10 years is is very akin to the you know early spaceflight programs and with the runway of like just going keep on going like I see no reason for them to be slowing down so it's it's definitely something to watch and and be interested in and who know I mean they're really genuinely might be a race to the moon again and they're really genuinely might be a race to Mars. The part of music is excited about that because a race is pretty cool yeah it's but the hopefully it's friendly competition and some collaboration it is true that uh maybe I'm being a bit cynical but nations sometimes the governments and leaders of those governments sometimes ruin things like you don't often have like statistically speaking it's harder to have a leader of a nation that looks beyond the political the uh particular political bickering of that nation and you have like a JFK type character that really steps up and inspires I think statistically speaking is better to have something like Elon who's a leader of a company like a commercial effort that is able to look beyond the borders of nations and uh certainly inspiring educators like yourself to look beyond the borders of those nations and the geopolitical conflicts and so on to uh to inspire the to inspire people I think that's just made so much easier like you can have more reach Tim Timdog can have more reach than NASA right like in terms of inspiring the world and that's fascinating like that that gives power to the individuals that see past the the the silly short-term geopolitical conflicts yeah that's the hope of the east yeah yeah do you worry that there might be a war in space yeah let's let's let's look out into the future so forget so the interesting thing about these rockets right let's not forget rockets uh do what rockets do that they can carry payloads that can be weapons do you worry about this I worry most about space wars as leading to the Kessler's syndrome of having a cascading effect of like a spacecraft blowing up and then affecting another spacecraft and that blows up and then all of a sudden you're trapped and have this debris cloud that we can't you know go we can't go into space anymore like that's my biggest because frankly at this point we we can annihilate ourselves with terrestrial stuff anyway you know I mean we don't need space to yeah to and society as we know it you know what I mean uh um but we do we could really and the the good thing is I think everyone well mostly everyone seems to understand this for the most part that like we really can't be risking blowing up stuff in space in low-Earth orbit because it could easily like we could strand ourselves from space assets for 50 years if oh should you elaborate on this like what what is the danger of the debris there that could jeopardize yeah so so for instance and there's only a couple of years ago Russia did an anti satellite test on a on an orbital there's a we've done this to the US has done this like that I'm not pinning it on them but we kind of know nowadays like don't do anti satellite tests on orbital things because those things stay in orbit you know when you blow something up in space it's not like you know people think you know when in in space like oh you throw a something it's just gonna keep going forever and ever and ever I mean that's in the in the sense that it's not going to be slowed down due to you know due to air resistance it's going to continue to do that but it's staying in orbit around the earth like you just slightly change the orbit of it around Earth when you throw a ball or something you know so the scary thing is when you blow up a satellite all those pieces of that satellite are now millions of bullets in a halo around the earth in a very specific halo you know so some things get blown up faster you know in according to its orbit faster so they'll go a little bit higher elliptically some things will get slowed down in that explosion and actually reenter some things will go sideways and change its inclination of that orbit so you have this debris field but it more or less becomes a band of like no no you know like a big scary sharp scary bullets that can destroy another spacecraft instead all of a sudden especially now Starlink and we're talking about thousands and thousands and thousands of satellites in space if all of a sudden one you know a couple of them crash and and you know blow up and obviously have all the shrapnel going everywhere then that hits another satellite that creates shrapnel you can literally blanket our entire lower earth orbit and 17,500 mile an hour bullets you know we're talking that the connect the kinetic energy in this is so hard for people to fathom because that you know that's over 10 times faster than most like rifle bullets and even like a big 50 cow is not going to be you know we're still talking about about 10 percent that so you think about the kinetic energy it's insane so a flick of paint can go through pains of glass at that velocity you know a little piece of metal can puncture you know blow straight through so like so our actions that seem small so small scale military actions can have can have dire detrimental effects to the whole space program like global space program oh yeah it can affect everything and everyone including the like including satellites oh yeah especially satellites like that's the one I mean the good and the bad thing is the good thing is a lot of satellites don't operate in low earth orbit like a lot of the the ones that we use day to day a lot of them are a medium earth orbit like the GPS or the geostationary which are way way out there and because of that they they won't really ever deorbit like it'll take you know millennia to deorbit because you know just because something's in space doesn't mean it's there forever especially like in low earth orbit the atmosphere doesn't just suddenly stop it's not like you hit the carman line 100 kilometers and also there's zero atmosphere the atmosphere just slowly tapers you know you can experience that yourself as you climb a mountain you slowly realize there's less and less air you just keep going and just because you're in space 200 300 kilometers up there's still trace molecules you know there's the occasional oxygen molecule there's the occasional nitrogen molecule and so that is actually drag so as a spacecraft in low earth orbit depending on its altitude we'll take anywhere from five years to five months to deorbit you know or two months or one month like depending on its orbit or its altitude we'll have some parasitic drag still and slowly throughout time slow down which lowers its orbit which drags it down more lowers its orbit and etc etc until it reenters so if we end up with some kind of catastrophic event where the entire low earth orbit is you know has been inundated and blown up it'll take months for the first band you know to clear up it'll take years for something like beyond there's charts you know people have all this stuff available you shouldn't look it up terrifying by the way but this is really the but again the caveat is for the most part the low earth orbit stuff would clear up within years so we could get back to doing some lore with it like Starlink stuff would probably be able to be re and you know we could kind of redo it and build up from the ground up again GPS wouldn't be wiped out and our geostationary satellites wouldn't be wiped out but the scary things we wouldn't be able to relaunch and replace new things because we're stuck we we're not going to fly through that debris field you know and we avoid that by avoiding military actions in space and these days like there's more and more requirements and legislation and especially trying to get international collaboration on having end of life plans for satellites that satellites especially those in low earth orbit have like drag devices to increase them once they're done they literally pull like even just a ribbon like a silly little like you know 40 foot long ribbon we'll sit there and it'll slowly it or it can speed up its reentry process by months or years or whatever so we're starting to see that this is now an importance there's a really cool company called Stoke Aerospace out in Washington is one of these launch providers providers that's really looking not into just trying to be the next you know SpaceX launch company they're really seeing satellite bringing stuff down from space as actually being especially right now we have all of these hundreds and thousands of satellites being launched every year someone at some point is probably not to do some cleanup and so they're looking at being one of those companies to do that well what do you think about Starlink and the efforts of Starlink to put a very large number of satellites out there and provide internet access to to or anyone to anyone generally I think Starlink is phenomenal and I would be saying this if it is any company I want to make that clear that people think I'm just some you know SpaceX fanboy or something and I think I think I think as your fan I could say you're basically a fan a fanboy or just a fan of everybody that's doing space though and I don't like there's no even in this whole conversation there's no way we cover like 10% of what I wanted to talk to you about so we're jumping around I mean there's we could talk probably for an hour about Artemis we could talk about anything with ULA obviously the all the other all the other commercial efforts we could talk about the NASA efforts the you know the I mean yeah and satan fight like are we gonna really go with this conversation I thought about satan fight and we might okay so like anyway Starlink starlink is in general exciting to you and not for the space assets but just the potential for humanity like I really think even as a consumer of the internet personally that what our studio space sound in Texas we're stuck with with media comm which has like the least reliable internet service period that's the only option either that or the trying to charge me like $20,000 to run a fiber optic cable like a thousand meters or something like it's it's insane I'm not going to do that I bought Starlink it helps but it's still not you know amazing but it has you can see where this is going in a year to three five years they're like oh I can totally screw the cellular internet provider and this is now by far the best option and it's available literally anywhere you don't have to be limited to your internet local internet service provider and on the global scale of course you have you know people be able to learn and learn about rockets learn about water management and architecture and city planning and fitness and health all of the all of the modern conveniences that we Google every single day there's people that don't have access to that right now you know I I'm a self-taught rocket nerd I would not be who I am if it wasn't for the internet in the last seven years you know six seven years so unlocking the intellectual potential of places like Africa of rural areas that don't currently have an internet access that's a genuine that's a huge thing that's like humanitarian 101 is give people access to information and you like you know I think we have this potential to try to step in and fix other people's problems but the reality is like people are smart and no matter where you are you're given the resources to learn they're going to solve problems they're going to promise all they're going to engineer they're going to but if you don't give them access to that information they're going to be stuck in their and their cycles you know and so I think the potential for Starlink is incredible I think it's already impactful it's already affecting people in you know in rural and indigenous areas and it's already affecting businesses and all that stuff I think it's great I think it is you know there's some downsides with astronomy with with ground-based astronomy that it can hinder observations from the ground there's already a lot of communications between SpaceX and astronomical societies and things like that because it is a real concern you know it's it can ruin observations it can ruin data but like one of the big ones for instance recently I think a new thing they're going to be working into is that currently if a Starlink is flying over over a ground-based asset a lot of a lot of ground telescopes actually have a laser that goes up and it measures the atmospheric distortion and the telescopes literally sit there and like by the millisecond fixes like changes the focus and fixes those atmospheric distortions and that laser can interfere with satellites so previously I'm pretty sure that SpaceX actually had to you know request that as they're flying over these satellites they are these telescopes they turn off the laser and when you have tens of thousands of these things flying it's you're going to be turning off the laser more than it's on you know and just being this insanely inconvenient thing because you're going to have these junctions happen often and I think one of the things that SpaceX is like okay no no you guys keep the laser on we'll deal with your laser good good staff you know things like that mitigating the brightness of them so they're not visible under most conditions of course like there's still always going to be visible in some but then the ultimately for me it's like this you have this weird like almost like a puberty of spaceflight and an astronomy where currently it's not cheap enough to really do a ton of incredible science or space-based telescopes you know we have web we have Hubble we have you know all these other you know awesome space-based telescopes Chandra you know all et cetera et cetera whatever and you uh but it's still so expensive to launch them yeah that we're still so reliant on our ground telescopes but in the future you can see a world where oh this is so cheap we'll just launch like we can launch 50 James Webb Space Telescope size telescopes this year for half the price of doing it on earth you know and get way better data so in the future I think in 20 30 years we'll look at it and be like oh man that was an awkward time where space assets were interfering with this astronomy but I think in the future it's like can you imagine doing space you know astronomy from the ground that's insane you know there could be complexities to just having them any just another topic so a complexity is associated with having so many satellites especially with competing companies and competing nations do you see that as an issue having tens of thousands hundreds of thousands satellites yeah it becomes a very interesting robotics collision avoidance problem the the one thing to keep in mind is perspective like I know 10,000 satellites and 20,000 and 100,000 satellites sounds insane and it sounds really scary but I mean just even look at how many planes are in the air at any given time and the planes are bigger they're flying slower which actually means there's a greater chance of collision if you think about you know two objects occupying space if they're ones moving really like imagine trying to you know throw two basketballs at each other relatively easy now try shooting two bullets at each other and having like you know at 90 degrees from each other yet to have your timing down like really perfect to do that now take that times 10 you know these objects are taking up a physical space very small amount of time they're relatively small like most satellites are not very big and they have in limitless altitudes to deal with so even though you can have what look like convergences you know they can be 10, 20, 50, 100 kilometers difference often and you know they're dealing with this like all the all space assets know hey I'm at this orbital plane in this bubble of law and they know their altitudes and know their safe distances and have these margins built in and it's space so there's like an insane amount of room you know so there's there's a lot of margin but there's a lot of margin but of course you can't excuse that all the way like you have to still have plans and and be considering that and considering collisions and considering all of the above when do you think the first human being will step foot on Mars yeah you don't like timelines but is this something and you're very much focused on kind of the short term of incredible progress that's happening and it makes no sense but there is the Mars plan that that was that the origin of the commercial spaceflight efforts do you still see in dream about that day let me be clear that I don't want to go to Mars but I do think if you're if you're making me guess a timeline for when humans will walk on Mars I even a year ago I still would have said by the end of 2020 like the 2020 is decade you know so by December 31st 2029 I thought humans would have walked on Mars I'm starting to think that's still too optimistic but I do I I definitely think by 2040 like I I first sure think that I and I really think it's just hard to predict that curve you know that that project out that curve we're gonna go from feeling like it's impossible like it's feeling like it's enough you know it could be another by the end of this decade JFK tape moment especially if China steps up with a space race yeah it could be like a all right NASA NASA kind of says all right this Elon fella like really make us a gigantic effort well and if Starship works out as planned and as as NASA has invested in human landing system they're relying on SpaceX to land on the moon SpaceX can land on the moon they can land on Mars now whether or not the life support in the human considerations of long-term spaceflight missions and high radiation and blah blah blah refueling on Mars is a huge huge huge deal they definitely could send a Starship to Mars and land ideally land in one piece on Mars as soon as they can land on the moon they can land on Mars basically I mean those two things are very so in some ways Mars is almost easier if you can use because you can use the atmosphere to slow down it actually doesn't take that much more delta V to actually land on Mars and it does because on the moon you don't have any you got to first get out to the moon then orbit the moon you know it's a slowdown every one of those is a maneuver change then you have to slow or orbit until it coincides you know hits the moon then if it's slowed down enough to not explode when you hit the moon so there's a lot of delta V there a lot of change in velocity Mars is actually by the time we kind of crunch the numbers it's relatively similar it's just a lot more difficult like timeline-wise and you know accuracy and all of these other communication you know there's a lot of other things obviously involved I'm glossing over making it sound easy it's not but you know I think if I think there's a real decent chance we could see a starship vehicle land on Mars uncrewed by the end of the decade though under the decade I mean there's also a sociological element maybe a political one where I think you're allowed to take more risks with Mars than you are with the moon because we've done the moon 1969 yeah it's been a while so PR-wise you have to be much safer yeah with Mars like everyone's like it's super dangerous like super like yeah so you could take a little more risk 100% with the with with man mission but actually just going back to the moon landing Apollo 11 mission I haven't talked about this how they the amazing engine there but again the romantic question and you look back at that moon landing one small step for man one giant step for mankind what do you think about that moment in human history do you do you go back to that often or are you focused just like with the cars on the on the engines no no I I I still when I need inspiration I rewatch this documentary called one we left earth I think it was like I think was discovery channel did it six part episode it it was narrated by Gary Seneese phenomenal overview of the space race and that will get my juices flowing every time every time just it's so well done and it's it really just summarizes that program so well and when I and beyond it goes over to the space shuttle but um yeah when I when I watch footage of humans walking on the moon it's just I can't believe we're done enough to do it with the technology we had and the risks they took to do it and the insane engineering that it took to do that is just absolutely astonishing the the amount of the sheer like logistics of what it took to do it with the the technology we had back then is like how did we have so much money and effort and energy and time and resources human resources to do this like it's just just the weakness of the computers that had back then yet to do so much I mean it's so much was so little it's insane and but at the same time like I don't know if we want to talk about conspiracy theories or anything but like it is all of like we have the proof in the pudding of like the 400,000 people on payroll like all of the paperwork all of the oh you mean the the question the conspiracy of who went on the moon yeah like I think the receipts are there like literally but it's like a lot of things like that I mean we're actually generally living in a pretty cynical time where people distrust institutions part of the thing was the space program is one of the things that can help reinvigorate the trust in institutions by institutions even that word is a bad word now but institutions means a bunch of humans get together and do big thing together yeah but you know like if I was conspiratorially minded it's like how the hell do humans do that yeah so I think that's a very cynical take unfortunately but it's still an incredible one and also you know there's grout there's until you look at the receipts there's a kind of like a rationale to that kind of conspiracy theory because so much pressure was put on the space race the the PR of it to be the winner so it makes sense that you might want to try to take shortcuts and fake things and you know propaganda you you know different kinds of messaging and I'm sure stuff like that was happening some kind of like little you know adjustment here and there to present things better and so on but ultimately the action engineering project of landing on the moon I the fact that humans did that I mean this sad that we didn't have better like waste to record it and as I watched like SpaceX efforts and Blue Origin and these efforts it's still not trivial to record the how just amazing awe inspiring spaces because it like you know like it's like Elon jokes about like space does look fake yeah like I think there is some elements of it where you have to be there to experience it really and I don't like I think it's on it's currently is still a non-solved problem of how do you capture the off that I mean you're one of the early people that are part of the crew that is exploring that very question I'm sure you won't find all the answers but you'll start to say like how do we convert this into a visual format is some kind of format that captures the the magic of it 100% and that's a perspective thing that I think about all the time you know what I I'll do a lot of thinking about like what is the thing that's reacting to people is if the sound is it the perspective is it like seeing a little tiny human next to a landing leg that makes people go oh my god this thing is huge you know just reading you know and digesting that and trying to help to convey that as best as possible because the stuff that we are and have worked on is it's so cool it's so exciting and it's so it's so important and like actually you know so much bigger than any one of us physically and metaphorically it's just so it's just I wish everyone had that that experience and had that light bulb go off and that's the cool thing that you're like smack in the middle of solving that really difficult in fascinating problem of how how do you capture the magic how do you inspire like that's not just an engineer problem that's a communication problem I I find specifically for myself that I get most excited about something when I learn a lot about it like when I learn the ins and the outs and I learn all the little problem solving in the you know the cool like oh my god they had to do what to make it work wow that's amazing and that's I try to just always go back to that route thing of like what can I teach my like if I'm every video I I expect that I learn something making it no matter what like no matter how much I think I know about something at the end of the day if I'm not learning something it's not a good video you know and I always think that people get excited when they learn and when they have some questions answered for them let me ask you a couple of quick out there futuristic questions I have to I hate myself I don't ask you so first let's talk about nuclear propulsion so out there interesting propulsion ideas so what do you think beyond the chemical engines that we talked about what do you think about using nuclear fission and maybe the nuclear fusion for for propulsion we already have thermal nuclear reactors that are nuclear engines that have been tested both by the United States and Soviet Union that were a hundred percent valid like totally ready to go efficient super awesome um yes yes yes hardcore yes and what they're using is yeah basically a fusion reactor you're flowing hydrogen through it and heating up the hydrogen taking it from liquid to gas you know and by heating it up you're you're adding energy to the propellant and then you're literally just using that now steam hot hydrogen and flowing it through a deal of El nozzle and you also have to use that that energy to spin the pumps to still pump the things you're still kind of using like a lot of the tricks you're using but instead of a chemical reaction you're literally just using nuclear fission to heat up propellant and do the same thing and at the end of the day end up with like eight nine hundred seconds of specific impulse which is double that of chemical propulsion most of that comes just because hydrogen is so light you're only emitting you're only ejecting hydrogen out of the nozzle so the lighter molecule is the faster it you know just like if you had a you know it's a golf ball versus like a bowling ball you can only physically throw one so fast and the other one as a human you're not going to do very well with so you can just you get you have the more potential for a higher exit velocity so nuclear thermal amazing you can just shoot these little hydrogen molecules out crazy fast crazy efficiently we already have it like we can do it yes yes and actually we're already re investing in that again as the United States is is looking at a basically ramping back up our nuclear propulsion why haven't we done it yet and what do you think the challenges that they're and do you think that's an obvious future like would you would you see in 50 years we're not using like we're not you for major projects like a starship type of project we're not using chemical propulsion anymore for getting off earth you'll always want to use chemical propulsion because the gas will come irradiated like you don't but you don't want to and then actually the thruster weight ratio of these engines are relatively poor they're they're very heavy they have a nuclear reactor like they're not they're really the reason we kind of give up on them is they're really most useful for like interplanetary if you're trying to get a big like if you're trying to send a huge payload off to Mars nuclear thermal is amazing it's still could be beneficial even going to the moon you know like in an earth moon system you could use third nuclear thermal very effectively it could be a great choice but it also that that starts to get into that trade of like we can just kind of use a little bit bigger rocket and and fly a normal you know it's is that whole trade thing but another reason why we we kind of stopped using them the one that the United States developed nerve was so heavy only a Saturn V could actually lift the stage of it like the upper stage so replace the S4B with a nuclear thermal with the nerve engine on the Soviet Union developed one about one tenth the size and thrust that was small enough to fly on a proton rocket but neither of them ever flew both of them have been tested and like thumbs up ready to go was just a huge shame to me because they they could unlock a lot of interplanetary potential and yeah it's all about Oslo which potentially interstellar as well not quite I don't think nuclear thermal not we're not quite getting there but then you get into like nuclear pulse drives and things where you're literally like basically ejecting a bomb out the back of your rocket and exploding and having like a shock absorber and and Pogo sticking your way out of the solar system that that's I mean by all physics sure you know there's not nothing wrong with that's not breaking any laws of physics and you know I but I just don't see us getting to that need anytime soon I don't think we're gonna travel yeah I mean that's that's I think we're gonna want a better understanding of physics and physics itself yeah I do have a hope that maybe theoretical physics will open the door to some exciting propulsion systems yeah I do I think we're still at the very infancy of our understanding of everything and how things work and you know a hundred years ago it would be stupid to try to predict the things we know today and who knows like even you know I think about things like James Webb looking deep around our solar system than ever before and physically be able to see objects that we just have not even been able to physically see before on being able to study black holes for example at better better this does this happening outside of black holes at the edges of black holes and how the information is stored the 100% holographic principle just there's so much weirdness throughout black holes yes around where gravity starts bending light it's like all right we get to look at that now and start to wander like what is going on and how can we like use that somehow for propulsion I mean it seems like awfully crazy and futuristic at this moment but I think that's because we know almost nothing about you know that those kinds of objects were again where the general relativity and quantum mechanics start to start to I have to be both considered to describe those kinds of objects and as we study those objects we may figure out some kind of unification thing that will allow us to understand maybe how to use black holes for propulsion like yeah I could say a lot of crazy things but like basically the point is it'd be stupid for us to even guess about things we don't even know about yet you know what I mean like and so I therefore I'm not going to say that the best option for interstellar travel is nuclear drives like that could be like someone saying you know in 1600 the only way to fly is by strapping a thousand birds to your head you know like but that said I mean everything you're saying is right but human history is such like at the beginning of the 20th century physicists Rutherford everybody this this brilliant people that said we've basically solved all of it right if you talk to most physicists I think they're going to say like we've pretty much solved like the standard model describes physics extremely accurately right general relativity explains the cosmos as we observe them extremely accurately yeah there's a whole dark matter dark energy thing whatever yeah but outside of that we so like we basically solved like like where are you going going to find gaps in knowledge that are going to somehow create warp drives or something like so wormholes but that's it seems like throughout history prove ourselves wrong time and time again yes no and I this is well outside of any of my knowledge base so I want to make sure that if I say anything stupid it's because I'm I just a peasant here in physics land but yes well peasants in physics land but I really just think like it's very humbling that we're still using chemical propulsion and and very in cell like ejecting mass to to propel ourselves and I and no matter how you get at it and I think someday I I would expect that our species has figured out a way to to get beyond that got asked you another wild question what do you think of Bob Lazar who claimed that he worked at and saw in area 51 a propulsion system fueled by quoting here maybe from Wikipedia I don't know where I got this from uh fueled by an anti-matter reactor which used us fuel the chemical element with atomic number 115 at the time it wasn't synthesized it was later in in 2003 synthesized named muskovium he said that the propulsion system relied on a stable isotope of element 115 which allegedly generates a gravity wave that allowed the vehicle to fly into a veiled visual detection by bending light around it no stable isotopes of muskovium have yet been synthesized all have proven extremely radioactive decaying in a few hundred milliseconds one do you believe him which I I find him fascinating because it's I find the human mind even more fascinating than then then something like an anti-matter drive because I think it's such a giant mystery that we haven't even begun to explore deeply anyway in that sense whether he's lying or not are both interesting things to explore from a psychology perspective but to I mean it's basically saying that I guess it's an alien extraterrestrial engine thing what do you think I mean I'm happy to change my opinion based on new evidence at any point I have like the biggest part of me wants to just be like this is obviously just stupid and a hoax and just total you know quack and then another part of me still is like this is exciting and fun to think that this is all real and then another part of me goes why how how good is this guy at lying and making stuff up because it's all really good like good storytelling good like I don't know what to think honestly I don't know I'm really very skeptical about anyone explaining anything like this like I mean my my radar is like screaming at me like this is all at full crap you know but I'd say like there's still a part of me it's just like man that is kind of cool how do you know that and like you know I mean it's well I think I've clicked it I think you were actually in the in the best kind of place because it's I'm afraid of being the kind of person that here's something like that and says it's definitely he's definitely full of crap and basically close my mind off to all that stuff I'm afraid of being somebody who closes my mind off to a thing that's actually a early thread to a brilliant to a to a future to a fascinating solution to a mystery so but in this case I mean I have so many red flags from a psychological perspective that that but again outside of this particular individual I do wonder if aliens have visited us I think aliens are everywhere I think the universe is teaming with alien life I mean there's it's very difficult for me to statistically understand given how life finds a way here on earth just everywhere the entire history of life on earth from the very origin of life it seems to be damn good at doing its thing and evolving to get better and better and better at doing its thing now there could be some special aspects to the origin of life itself which is completely not understood so maybe the true magic is in the origin of life or it could be that there is some magical leaps to a eukaryotic cells for example that the universe our galaxy is teaming with alien life but it's all bacteria they're all boring bacteria or exciting bacteria no offense the bacteria the but the no intelligence space pharing civilizations I don't know but I just if I were to guess I had to bet all my money there is space pharing civilizations everywhere in the universe and the fact that they're not they have not been directly definitively observed confuses me and I think it's a mystery and if I were to suggest what the solutions of that mystery is they might look extremely different from us then we might be too domped to detect them yeah and like and so there I think you have to be extremely open-minded at what would we be looking for right that and that that's a very practical thing to be open-minded about and practically speaking if we were to be able to even detect them from a distance get a tech techno signature of a distant planet of a distant star system that has alien life honestly the number one thing I kind of want to know is like what's your propulsion system like how do we travel faster right like there's a bunch of details probably but first let's get together and teach me how to go fast go fast I like motor signals I like rockets yeah yeah yeah like how like I'll show you mine if you show me yours kind of thing at the inter interstellar intergalactic level yeah anyway I just wonder maybe it's a cheat code in this video game we call life but I want to I want to use the cheat code to figure out what kind of propulsion systems are possible and it feels like other alien civilizations might help us give us give us a guidance on that of course I think even just discovering boy one of the things with the space program like everything we're doing with Mars like the secret thing I'm really excited about the romantic thing is humans on Mars but the secret thing is building giant stations on Mars that allow us to definitively hopefully find the traces of life that either currently doesn't live or has once lived on Mars because if that's the case that means for sure life is everywhere 100% and then you're like and once you know that's already keep interrupting that shouting the hell up this is supposed to be an interview god damn it all right that like that just the knowledge of that just the knowledge that a four minute mile can be run I think we'll open our minds completely to really really hardcore push to interstellar travel or colonizing Mars becoming a multi-penetrenary species it'd be truly inspiring you think that it wait do you do you get nervous so like I'm gonna I'm the interviewer now yeah don't you get nervous that we could make spectacular discovery on Mars that not only has there been life there's actually like pretty advanced micro you know our multicellular life totally thriving in certain regions we just hadn't visited the man on Mars and we make this big discovery that relatively large percentage of people just simply wouldn't believe it did I think it's all yeah 100% fake and that they're just doing this to control us and that blah blah blah like we could make the most important discovery in human life like in all of human existence that that we're not alone in this universe by you know cellular at least and a good percentage of people I'm thinking 20 30 in today's world 40 plus percent of people wouldn't even believe it existed interesting I I'd be it's just a very important thing to think about especially as an educator like yourself I think the the current cynicism towards institutions and sciences temporary I think it's they're basically the internet woke up the internet smells bullshit and it looked at uh I'm sorry I'm not being ages but saying older scientists and and they looked at them and they kind of said you're kind of foolish shit you got a lot of ego uh you're you speak down to everybody you're not very good at communicating I think there's a lot of truth to what they're saying and I think the young scientists that are coming up will be much better at not being foolish it being authentic being real not treating people like their children that can't possibly understand like taking it very seriously that there's a lot of intelligent people out there they're curious that are this full desire for knowledge like being transparent about all the uncertainties of the scientific process all the tensions the conflicts all of that and I I think I think once we fix the commute science communication system adapted to the internet um I think that won't be an issue I hope I hope I mean that's so that's why people like you are really important is like communicate with authenticity um but yeah that's definitely something to think about I mean yes the early uh I mean listen scientists too like the phosphine discovered on on Venus is like they're extremely skeptical always so definitely there there'll be a lot of skepticism uh and it depends what it looks like if it kind of looks like this thing kind of looks like bacteria back on earth uh yes uh so it means contamination is very difficult to avoid in general but if the thing looks like fundamentally different yeah then you're like all right yeah that like totally different DNA aren't like this is you're not we've never observed this ever yeah then uh then you're like all right cool of course I mean uh so that I do what another promising thing that difficult to be definitive about but we'll just get better and better direct imaging systems there's now like I don't know how many but thousands of planets are being discovered outside of our solar system there's moons being discovered now earth like planets being discovered so like all of that if you could do direct imaging of those planets more and more and more there could be some gigantic listen if there is like a uh Kardashev like type two civilization we're gonna see the damn thing it's gonna be producing a lot of uh it's gonna be uh radiating a lot of energy so the possibility of detecting some of that that's also a real possibility with something like James Webb telescopes like those kinds of efforts that starts becoming a reality uh have you read Andy Weir's project Hail Mary I have not no you're going to love it like it is basically uh almost answering that like how could they not see us type of thing almost where he creates this this incredible I don't want to spoil anything but you know um it's just the the sense that like we could have totally different perspectives with with an alien race and not even like consider that you know the two of us are co-existing almost yeah I don't want to spoil anything because it's really really really worth the read or you mean a different perspective like the aliens have a different perspective than humans yeah like both we just like we see with this visual light yeah someone could see an x-ray etc you know like and just the way we even come to the same perspective like looking and observing is just so different fundamentally that like we could I mean it's not quite like that it's not like it's like oh they were actually on the moon and we're you know it's nothing like that but uh but it's such a unique and incredible story I think Andy Weir's one of the best science fiction writers I don't I can't say that with much authority because I don't listen to my science fiction so zero authority I really like Andy Weir's books and that is no different but that sounds like I'm really worried about that it sounds like I would really love it I've uh different I've been very I've done a lot of reading in my life but like the science fiction is one of the things I've been really really weak on I haven't really read much and I just made more and more friends over the years recently that say that I absolutely must read some of these things are you do you physically read or do you do audiobooks while you run and stuff uh both I do both yeah well physically I sadly don't it's a kindle right yeah yeah yeah but uh but when I while I run I also do uh so I do both I do about uh on a normal day especially now that I've been really focused on on reading it's about 60 minutes of reading on a kindle and I wanted two hours uh because I run about two hours when I don't have like other stuff like today I won't run uh so it's about three hours so an average I would say it's like two two and a half hours a day that I read and audiobooks are just the same they're a little slower but they're they they can especially for the classics they can capture some of the magic with the deep voice usually with the British accent I love it I also read that uh listen to sorry that uh a book on propulsion like two years ago I remember but I remember that was extremely difficult but yeah it was ignition by John DeClarke yeah it was very difficult to listen oh I yeah I see I don't read I listen to while I'm on road trips or running or yeah stuff like that too so I swear there's probably 40 or like not 40 but there's like eight minutes of we tried PMZ 15 13 BM4 12 RMNL my troll Michael Hydergy for like I swear it's multiple minutes of explaining one trial on something because there's just so many different chemicals they try I don't know it's it's it's almost a joke okay I literally audibly laughed out loud listening to it because I'm like this is so ridiculous I'm sure it makes sense reading it but like listening to it is just hilarious but it's great though what do you think of some of the challenges for long-term space travel do you think about this kind of stuff the biological stuff yeah do you do you worry do you think about radiation on Mars uh and out in space over periods of uh actually the effects on the human body forget the even their radiation over periods of months and years yeah I think realistically we have a really good handle on what the effects are and we actually have the solution to like everything it's just whether or not we can like you know for instance one of the you know in low-ratherbit one of the biggest challenges eventually after your long-term space travel is bone density loss and not having gravity you know you actually have issues with a handful of things and artificial gravity is easy in terms of relatively easy in terms of space flight you know you can you have two vehicles just tethered together and you know just spinning and give it enough distance and a decent enough spin velocity and you can you can get one gene like relatively easy we're talking again relatively easy especially after talking about theoretical physics like this is that's easy stuff um we haven't done that yet but like there's there's no reason why we can't produce artificial gravity if we say that that's um you know a big enough hurdle that we absolutely have to overcome this okay cool we'll just spin up two vehicles that are going to Mars and people will have but you know that's the thing is Mars is only about we'll say six months there then you're hanging out in Mars you have 38% of gravity and then six months ish back people live on you know the international space station at six months stints we've had people for basically a year up on the international space station it's not like it's it's not life altering yeah you have a couple days of not being able to walk very well and you do have some bone density loss and some other concerns but like again that's it's solvable and I think on you know the first mission is to Mars I think it might we might we might we'll probably do the trade is it worth it to like land on Mars and have a crippled crew that can't even physically stand yet you know for a day or two before they get their you know feet from underneath them or is it do we need to spin up two spacecraft you know a tether and and have like you can't do it like starship you know even though it's 30 feet wide or nine meters wide if you spin it on that one access that's not enough space to get one G without your feet in your head being it two different velocities you get really sick it will you always feel like you're falling your brain will tell you that you're falling constantly but then again okay so this is this is a whole thing is I you know and I don't know if there's we don't really have the data yet on like going from zero G we know the effects of that we know the effects of one G really well that's our majority of our data set but we don't really have much data on the long term effects of you know one six gravity like on the moon or 38% gravity is it is one six gravity actually enough to counteract 95% of the effects of low gravity or is it 15 you know is it one six the is it like a linear thing is 38% gravity totally you know 38% as bad as one or whatever you know is it a slight like where is it down on the on the scale so there's a chance we don't need anywhere near one G of gravity to counteract the the bulk majority of these problems we could have point one G or whatever is the you know the right compromise of of vehicle complexity and human biology and all of these other effects like we this is absolutely a solvable thing that is and and now we figure some of this out through just experimentation 100% along the way yep one of this is back to my dating life I think one of the essential fundamental research questions I'm wondering about is the dynamics and so the details of how you have sex and space asking for a friend of course I mean that's there literally is sort of work on this right because like if you think about long term space travel I mean sex is sort of like the there's the recreational aspect of sex but the most important aspect of sex for long term space travel is procreations and also the full biological cycle of that so that from the embryos the development of the baby the giving the birth and all that kind of stuff so like you know there's a lot of really difficult problems of biology there to understand and perhaps a solve some of that again just like you said brilliantly some of that can be just solved with engineering outside of the human body by creating a gravitational field like that but maybe along the way you can figure out how to do that without doing it we're balancing the cost and so on and radiation is the other thing like radiation we know we have a really good data set on what radiation and doses do to humans like we we know we can measure radiation we know we can approximate you know and kind of give edge cases for the Mars transient and getting to Mars and being on Mars and the simple answer to that is like at the end of the day if we have to you know dig into Mars or find a tunnel to to live in so you get some extra mass in between you and cosmic radiation so be it like that's the that's the answer then again none of these are like insolvable problems are just things the hurdles you would have to overcome based on you know the the risk exposure and the posture there imagine being the first child the first baby born outside of earth that'd be pretty cool yeah that'll be I would love to be alive to see that that'll say a big one I don't know if he'll um I don't know because it's such a dangerous thing it's so risky I think that could be in our lifetime you think so yeah I I would like to think in a perfect world of for thinking futurism that in 30 to 50 years I definitely think we could have a full-time like permanent major civilizations you know like like um uh like what blue origin wants to develop where they have a a huge like sphere you know and that you're doing a lot of uh especially heavy industry off of earth so you're not polluting earth like that's makes so much sense to me um yeah I think I think we we could live in a lifetime where you know we thought the sense that 50s and 60s that people are going to be living in working in space like crazy and at any given point we're lucky to have 12 people in space today um but I really think in our lifetime we're finally getting to that point of yeah that that's a reality let me because you mentioned blue origin I can we just lay out some of the competitors to space x so much of what we talked about is uh space x specifically because they're sort of pushing the boundaries of what's possible in the commercial space like but there's a lot of like you said incredible work being done for large companies and small companies startups and so on uh so who are the competitors to space x a ula you know launch alliance blue origin as a virgin uh is it galactic orbit orbit would be the competitor virgin orbit uh there's uh rocket labs electron rocket that you mentioned um there's the folks you covered firefly yep yep and uh what are we missing there's the the epic space launch system from NASA I guess that is yeah tankley NASA but prime contractor Boeing and Boeing and orc and orc blockade yeah north of the boosters yep okay nice so like what uh what's what's interesting to say to lay out the land here that you're excited about just in general I think if you aren't working on a reusable some form of reusable vehicle like physically working on it pen to paper they're not beyond pen to paper like bending metal for a reusable vehicle you're gone you're toast I think we're well into that being the only provable you know way forward the only way you're going to compete and survive is a reusable rocket fully reusable would be great but that's obviously massively aspirational still um but it will come but to me um the yeah the list you pretty much had it right on the head uh there's there's astra was another orbital rocket company yeah um they there there's a lot of companies and I think right now the the ones that I personally really believe in um you know rocket lab is is awesome I really think that they are one of the few that I believe can actually build a Falcon 9 class rocket uh like today with the with their technology with their knowledge with their investments with their funding you know like they've they've proven themselves there's very few they have actually made it look easy I think there's a lot of startups and a lot of new rocket there's a too many launch providers popping out of the woodwork right now they won't all survive of course I think realistically if you look at like airplanes how many airplane you know there's a handful of airplane manufacturers there's not hundreds and thousands of airplane manufacturers I think it'll be a similar thing for spaceflight I think we'll see we'll see you know realistically in the terms of double jess and passengers there's basically two you know there's airbus and there's Boeing um so I I think in the long run there'll be two or three major players I think they'll be you know ten minor like as far as launch providers as far as the ones actually leaving earth and getting into orbit I just don't think there's a ton of room for individuality really you know yeah I would love to see it like it's really serious competitor to SpaceX in the way that SpaceX does things I don't know if you'll like it's quite what I it's quite the right kind of competitor let me let me say this ULA has all of the potential but just operationally they're you know they're either you're blockied Martin and Boeing's like love child yeah like they're kind of set up in a far too traditional manner where they just really aren't given the opportunity to innovate like a lot of these startups are so rocket lab is a little bit more of that nature what do you think about just blue origin in general is the origin I man I what blue origin has done with new shepherd is amazing and people just lot it because it's suborbital and it looks very phallic it's it's uh so I guess the meme matters also it's modern day but it's sad because people don't see what they are also working on which is new Glenn you know I see comments almost every day still of like it doesn't matter because you know they're working on tiny it's like no new Glenn is more powerful and more capable than Falcon Heavy new Glenn is almost more of a competitor to not quite as to Starship but it's almost in that class it's it's a it's a heavy lift launch vehicle it's huge it's crazy it'll be nuts they're very actively working on it you know I still think we're three years away from launching but that's a very strong competitor in the class of rockets at SpaceX is currently making so SpaceX is currently leading the way but that that it could become a close race and what it's just I will just for now we'll ignore SpaceX and we'll just kind of talk about like I think who's kind of coming around the corner here who's here so let me just do a quick overview I'm gonna shoot myself on the foot for getting some cool people here and some exciting companies but relativity is one that if you you should definitely get to MLS on the show who is the CEO of relativity they're doing 3D printed rockets the ones that have the world's largest 3D printer they're getting really close to their first orbital launch the cool thing about them the reason that I think they're exciting the reason that I I think they have the potential is just how quickly they can iterate I think 3D printing a rocket is really dumb I think iterating with 3D printing on a rocket is brilliant because you can literally change software and have like very little you know upload a file and have a new rocket like that's amazing so in terms of long-term iterative process if we're really talking about like hitting the ground running and and just seeing where the evolution takes you I think that's about as good as you can get you know I think what SpaceX is doing at Starbase just physically bending cheap steel is probably also a very valid solution I so I really think and they have the engineering shops I think they've got some amazing people there again rocket lab I adore what they work on and you know like everyone there's a caveat here that everything takes longer anything any company tells you it's two or three times longer just period rocket labs no different but I really they're they're working on a neutron rocket that's going to be like I think 8000 to 15000 kilograms to lower throw but like it's a good medium-class rocket will compete right along with Falcon 9 hopefully by the way neutron would be its name yeah yeah it's not some kind of neutron it's not some kind of fascinating new physics breakthrough or they're using neutrons no no but they are using they're also using liquid methane and liquid oxygen I just think it's a really it's a seems like a great rocket and assuming they can actually get it flying in two or three years I think they're going to be it's here to stay you know I'd be remiss right now I'm editing a video from an interview with Stoke Aerospace out in Kent Washington um it's just one of these companies that they have a long ways to go like they're still in the very they're they're they're behind the curve frankly in in terms of launch vehicles right now because like I said there's so many coming out of the work but the idea they're working on their solution to a fully reusable rocket is amazing one of the coolest concepts I've ever seen are you gonna cover in the video yeah yeah yeah that'll be hopefully coming out the next depending on what the schedule like is down there I'm working I'm actively editing that as we speak and it is so cool I mean it is like it's it's it's genius and um if they can actually get it to work I can see them merging I can for sure see someone potentially like I perfectly in perfect world they merge with rocket lab they uh Stoke develops the upper stage and maybe even the engines they are the two guys the the CEO the co-founder so that company um have they are engine like propulsion engine your magnificence they have they used to they both have worked at blue they developed engines in a hurry there and then left blue and it felt like it was getting too slow for them and now they are I mean these these guys fired uh a 15 chambered rocket engine instead of four from the Soviet and we're talking 15 chambers single turbo pump uh 70 times in the month of October wow that's impressive and that's like that was on app you know if you think about like days off time off you know parts changing yes over twice a day on average of a hydro-lock engine that's insane so I I love them and I hope the best but they're also topical right now they're top of my head so uh what about firefly what I like about firefly they've already got kind of a traditional aerospace backing there starting to buddy up a lot with Northrop Grumman so they're gonna be building the booster stage for Antares which is currently flying only out of Wallops Virginia and is one of the only other commercial providers for the international space station and Northrop Grumman is a very traditional aerospace company you know like lots of solid rocket boosters and they've purchased ironically their their current Antares is reliant on Russian engines and Ukrainian boosters two things that I don't think you're gonna be able to get your hands on too much anymore so they're looking to uh some US propulsion and stages so they actually are partnering with uh with firefly and their new Antares rocket will be a first stage built entirely by firefly so I'm I'm excited that firefly already has the propulsion technology um and they actually developed ironically their their tap-off cycle engine was developed uh in partnership with Ukraine with Ukrainian engineers uh who developed the the whole turbo pump system so it's like it's this cool melt meddling of of these worlds um their former CEO Tom Rekusik was like I have an interview with him and he's anyone that can just spout nuances and facts I just love I just soaked that guy's information up as fast I could because he is brilliant literally a doctor a rocket doctor you know it's so yeah I mean that's what like you said that's the fascinating about these folks they're they're legit they're there they're such great engineers that people that they bring these rockets to life and then there's all this stuff that we know and don't know about in uh in China and other parts and other nations that are putting stuff into orbit one of the sad things also is like you know with Lockheed and Boeing is um it's just military applications in general there's so much technology that's currently being developed that we probably know nothing about yeah and uh it makes me a little bit sad of course yeah uh for several reasons one is that the use of that technology is has really much like it's not it's not that inspired it's like a very military focus yes to kill someone it's to kill someone yeah uh there's not even like a aside application right and and the the big one is that the secret it's it's a trodden in secrecy as opposed to being a source of inspiration yeah 100 percent but that's the way of the world like what was that one plane that you covered that was like we know nothing about oh the x-37b yeah x-37b yeah orbited for over 900 days and returned like yeah i want to know about that thing i don't know that's what's it's so frustrating we know when it launches people you know amateurs track and know they even will be like oh it changed orbit you know it raised and lowered its orbit blah blah we generally have just almost no idea what it's doing up there and i just now saddened me because i want to know and it's awesome it's a great vehicle war what is it good for uh you mentioned curvil space program the video game someone asked you what video game you recommend for learning about space and rockets and you said duck curvil space program so tell me about this game what what is this game and i also saw heard that a second one is coming out so what what what like uh you know i've been playing more games recently uh because games are fun and they remind you that life is awesome uh so why should i play this game if you want to learn about rockets how to fly how to build how to get it to orbit how to get to other planets there's no better way to learn about rockets to length what what what is it until like do you actually like uh it's like sim city and microsoft flight simulator for rockets oh interesting so you will get to like what do you design the rockets yeah yeah it's okay so i started playing it in like 2014 i think around as i'm like falling in love with space and i became obsessed with this game like literally you you know you you you you take a like that you get boop a little command module click you click on a fuel tank boop you choose your engine boop you choose a stage connector boop you connect more tanks and build these space planes and fantastical things and it's all like physics based and it's available this sounds like a commercial it's available on pc pack and and console like it's it's available everywhere but wait there's more but wait there's more and you you you you you said like you streamed yourself playing this at those any of those videos up oh yeah yeah there's someone like actually the first videos i ever uploaded to youtube were re like recaptured streams from twitch that it's physically uploaded to youtube this is awesome and so it's it's me playing curvil we ice through this kind of like a podcast style thing uh i should get back into this because it's one of my favorite things i ever did it's called we called it today it's in space fight history but these days that probably just play curvil but i had my friend comes to next to me his name's Jacob and he is a former professional pole valter just this really knows nothing about rockets yes knows nothing about space hilarious like in the sweetest most fun way you know like he you know as an adult ask me which is bigger the earth of the moon and i love that for him you know that's that's fantastic he's just a delightful human he would sit next to me we would recreate a historical space fight mission and curvil space program and he would just sit there and play guitar and sing about what i'm like doing and asking questions yeah and it's still one of my favorite things i've ever done yeah you should definitely do something like that so basically just uh yeah shoot the shit with a friend get their curiosity going let them just sit there and ask questions it was awesome like i mean yeah those are some i i've done it a handful times i think we probably did like 20 or 30 episodes or something and it is it's definitely something i would like to get back to doing can you in the in the game i go to go to the moon yeah so it's it's technically a different solar system it's the curvil system and you're on the planet kerbin so there's the moon m u n there's a second moon in the system on this planet uh it's called minnis they didn't want to pay less sick fees or what well it's just a little easier it's a little bit smaller so the physics are easier um oh so it tries to be consistent with physics yeah oh yeah yeah the physics are all are all like real world physics and i mean there's aerosimulations there's all of its like one to one you know for earth physics it's just on an easier scale solar system so it's easier to navigate but there's still like there's a planet called eve that's kind of like Venus so it has a really thick atmosphere really thick really soupy it's um it's and a lot have more gravity so it's just really really hard to get off of um it's easy relatively easy to land on eve but like that's kind of like the ultimate boss in the game it's like getting off of eve so that's one of my favorite things to do is build these crafts to to get to eve and try to return home you mentioned that there's almost like a podcast thing you also did our our ludicrous future what uh is there a podcast in your future are you are you think it and do you enjoy the medium you're so incredibly good at talking it's less effort to uh sort of to produce are you is that something in the in the back of your mind also oh man i love talking yeah you're very good at it i mean yeah um i i find that i it's just the problem with for me with with podcasts and i think it's the podcast that i've done have tried to be relatively topical about like the current spaceflight shuffairs and four three or four years ago that was actually you know manageable for me to keep up with these days man i can't keep i just can't keep up with it i gave up on trying to be super topical and i realized that maybe my my biggest talent and the things that resonate most with people is just trying to explain the like the basics and the and the the root really get some really just trying to like i'm trying to do less live streams if i can but then again like starship i got a stream that there's no way i'm not going to do that but i'm really just trying to get back to like making the deep dive videos where i have no limit on how long and how deep and just really go for it because that's actually what i love to do the best yeah i mean it's like uh views aside those are just works of genius and you're getting better and better at them and like that's the that in in terms of the beautiful things you can create in this world those are that so like if you continue especially where the the way space travel is developing right that your voice is very much needed so i think it's wise to um to do what you do best and i i think at i'm feeling more and more especially this last year i did a lot of like live streaming and traveling back and forth between flota and california and here and just handling major like big live streams really stress myself out and at the end of the day i was like all of this is taking away from my ability to make videos and that's ideally honestly if i like had my choice of things i would just ignore everything else and just sit and lock myself in a in my house for a year and just sit there and make videos and and go and travel every every other month you know for fun like not for space stuff just go and and do some light traveling you know some like around the moon or what yeah just some light traveling uh what advice you would you give to young folks uh or just folks struggling to find their way in life uh whether they're in high school college or beyond like how to have a life they can be proud of how to have a career they can be proud of you've had a really interesting journey yourself what what from that can you draw me okay advice to others to be honest like i feel like it's so painfully obvious to follow your heart and follow like what makes you happy that i'm just shocked that people allow themselves to sit on like mediocrity you know like to just sit there and be like well this is just what i do you know in some and like for a lot of people that's perfectly fine like i have you know some of my best friends are clocking in and out and they're perfectly happy they have a wonderful life absolutely no judgment there of course um but for people that are stuck feeling like they're not sure of you know what's next and how to bring light into their world uh you really just gotta listen to like what does make you happy you know people feel guilty about oh i play video games for eight hours then start learning how to make a video game learn how to do reviews of video games or make there's so many you can work in the video game industry you know you don't have to isolate your love from your work you know and it's just funny that we you know maybe uh maybe you feel guilty that you drink too much okay i don't know if there's a good advice go go learn how to make alcohol you know be a starter liquor company yeah starter liquor company well it's a great advice but it's also in your own story it seems like you've almost stumbled on like some of it is just exploration and keeping your mind and heart open to discovering that thing that grabs you right it's not what you fall asleep thinking about you know like but you you stumbled on the space almost accidentally right i mean yeah yeah like it did do would you when you were doing up being a professional photographer would you have known oh no well do you want to know what I wanted to be when i was a kid what's that well first when i was young i wanted to be a tractor i'm not quite sure i understood yeah how that works then i wanted to be a scorpion trainer yeah thought i could train him to cut people's lawns yeah yep yep and then honestly the majority of my childhoods got i think you know understanding of physics early on with just a little the pinchers man pinchers get off uh then uh from like probably six until like early college i wanted to be a prosthetic engineer and never once did i think about anything rockets really you know i had like i had like a like a spatial poster i had some space shuttle legoes you know i liked space and you know i knew of this space shuttle but you know is a far down the list as far as things that i thought were cool ninja turtles lambroghini kuntosh b17g flying fortress yeah i guess i guess that means if you just keep your heart open to falling in love with an idea with a passion yeah you could start from that from ninja turtles and scorpions saying lawn to uh being one of the best one of the top educators inspirational figures in space and actually uh traveling around the moon and who knows maybe one day stepping foot on the moon and Mars even though you say it not interested it seems like you stating that you're not interested in certain things somehow results in you and you're doing those things my friends joke that like i'm gonna be the first person to go out of the moon against their will yeah like like i guess all right yeah this is uh now i was the think guys we're gonna start a fundraiser please like Tim just doesn't want to have to he doesn't want to go you know definitely don't want to do it all right Tim you're an incredible person thank you so much for everything you do i've been a fan of years for a long time not just the the content but just who you are just you know being just how excited you are for everything it's it's just an inspiration you're joy to watch thank you for being you thank you for doing this stuff you're doing uh i can't wait to see what you do next man thank you so much for talking with me today that was awesome thank you so much it's my pleasure thanks for listening to this conversation with Tim Dodd to support this podcast please check out our sponsors in the description and now let me leave you with some words from hg wells life forever dying to be born afresh forever young and eager will presently stand upon this earth as upon a footstool and stretch out it's realm amidst the stars thank you for listening and hope to see you next time
