Tim Urban: Tribalism, Marxism, Liberalism, Social Justice, and Politics | Lex Fridman Podcast #360
 of radical political movement of which there will always be a lot in the country, has managed to do something that a radical movement is not supposed to be able to do in the US, which is they've managed to hijack institutions all across the country and hijack medical journals and universities and the ACLU, all the activist organizations and non-profits and many tech companies. And the way of you are liberal democracy is it is it, it is a bunch of these institutions that were trial and error crafted over hundreds of years. And they all rely on trust, public trust, and there's certain kind of feeling of unity that actually is critical to a liberal democracy's functioning. And what I see this thing is, is as a parasite on that, that whose goal is, and I don't think they're bad people, I think that it's the ideology itself has the property of its goal is to tear apart the pretty delicate workings of the liberal democracy and shred the critical lines of trust. The following is a conversation with Tim Urban, his second time in the podcast. He's the author and illustrator of the amazing blog called Wait, but Why? And is the author of a new book coming out tomorrow called What's Our Problem, a self-help book for societies. We talk a lot about this book in this podcast, but you really do need to get it and experience it for yourself. It is a fearless, insightful, hilarious, and I think important book in this divisive time that we live in. The Kindle version, the audiobook, and the web version should be all available on day of publication. I should also mention that my face might be a bit more beat up than usual. I got hit in the chin pretty good since I've been getting back into training Jiu Jitsu, a sport I love very much, after recovering from an injury. So if you see Mark's on my face during these intrales or conversations, you know that my life is in a pretty good place. This is the Lex Reedment Podcast to support it. Please check out our sponsors in the description. And now, dear friends, here's Tim Urban. You wrote an incredible book called What's Our Problem, a self-help book for societies. In the beginning, you present this view of human history as a thousand-page book where each page is 250 years. And it's a brilliant visualization because almost nothing happens for most of it. So what blows your mind most about that visualization? We just sit back and think about it. It's a boring book. So 950 pages, 95% of the book hunter-gatherers kind of doing their thing. I'm sure there's obviously some major cognitive and advancements along the way and language. And I'm sure the bone arrow comes around at some point. So tiny things, but it's like, oh, now a 400 pages tell the next thing. But then you get to page 950 and things start moving. Recorded history starts at 976. So basically, the bottom row is when anything interesting happens. There's a bunch of agriculture for a while before we know anything about it. And then Recorded History starts. Yeah, 25 pages of actual like recorded history. So when we think of prehistoric, we're talking about pages one through nine seventy five of the book. And then history is page, you know, nine seventy six to one thousand. If you were reading the book, it would be like epilogue, AD, you know, the last little 10 pages of the book. And we think of AD is super long, right? 2000 years. The Roman Empire 2000 years ago. Like that's so long. Yeah. Human history has been going on for over 2000 centuries. Like that is, it's just, it's hard to wrap your head around. And this is, I mean, even that's just the end of a very long road. Like, you know, the hundred thousand years before that, it's not like, you know, it's not like that was that different. So it's just, there's been people like us that have emotions like us, that have physical sensations like us for so, so long. And who are they all? And what was their life like? And it's, you know, I think we have no idea what it was like to be them. The thing that's craziest about the people of the far past is not just that they had different lives, they had different fears, they had different dangers and different responsibilities and they live in tribes and everything. But they didn't know anything. Like we just take it for granted that we're born on top of this tower of knowledge. And from the very beginning, we, we know that the earth is a ball floating in space. And we know that we're going to die one day. And we know that, you know, we evolved from animals. And all the, those were all like incredible, you know, epiphanies quite recently. And the people a long time ago, they just had no idea what was going on. And like, I'm kind of jealous because I feel like it, you know, might have been scary to not know what's going on. But it also, I feel like would be, you'd have a sense of awe and wonder all the time. And you don't know what's going to happen next. And it's once you learn, you're kind of like, oh, that's like, it's a little grim. But they probably had the same capacity for consciousness to experience the world, to wander about the world. Maybe to construct narratives about the world and myths and so on. They just had less grounded systematic facts to play with. They've still probably felt the narratives, the myths that constructed as intense as we do. Oh, yeah. They also fell in love. They also had friends and they had falling outs with friends. Didn't shower much though. They did not smell nice. Maybe they did. Maybe beauties in the high of the behold. Yeah. Maybe it's all like relative. So how many people in history have experienced a hot shower? Like almost none. That's like, one more hot shower was invented 100 years ago. Like less. So like George Washington never had a hot shower. It's like, it's just kind of weird. Like he took cold showers all the time or like. Yeah. And again, we just take this for granted. But that's like an unbelievable life experience to have a rain, a controlled little booth where it rains hot water on your head. And then you get out and it's not everywhere. It's like contained. That was like, you know, a lot of people probably lived and died with never experiencing hot water. Maybe they had a way to heat water over a fire. But like then it's, I don't know. It's just like, there's so many things about our lives now that are completely, and it could just total anomaly. It makes you wonder like, what is the thing they've noticed the most? I mean, the sewer system, like it doesn't smell in cities. I think what does the sewer system do? I mean, it gets rid of waste efficiently, etc. We don't have to confront it both with our within of our senses. And that's probably wasn't there. I mean, what else? Plus all the medical stuff associated with the disease. Yeah. How about the cockroaches and the rats and the disease and the the the plagues and, you know, and then when they got so they they caught more diseases, but then when they caught the disease, they also didn't have treatment for it. So they often would die or they would just be in a huge amount of pain. They also didn't know what the disease was. They don't know about microbes. That was this new thing. The idea that these tiny little animals that are causing these disease. So what do they think? You know, in the the bubbonic plague, you know, in the black death, the 1300s, people thought that it was an active God because, you know, God's angry at us because why would you know, why would you not think that if if you didn't know what it was? And so the crazy thing is that these were the same primates. So I do know something about them. I know in some sense what it's like to be them because I am a human as well. And so know that this particular primate that I know what it's like to be experienced such different things. And like this isn't our life is not the life that this primate has experienced almost ever. So it's just a it's a bit strange. I don't know. I have a sense that we would get acclimated very quickly. Like if we threw ourselves back a few thousand years ago, it would be very uncomfortable at first, but the whole hot shower thing you'd get used to it. No, yeah. After a year, you would not even like miss it. Is that was there's a few trying to remember which book that talks about hiking that Appalachian Trail. But you kind of miss those hot showers. But I have a sense like after a few months after a few years. Well, you used your skillery calibrates. Yeah. Yeah. I was saying the other day to a friend that whatever you used to, you start to think that oh, that the people that have more than me are more fortunate. Like it just sounds incredible. I would be so happy. But you know, that's not true. Yeah. Experience what would happen is you would you would you would get these new things or you would you would get these new opportunities and then you would get used to it. And then you would just the hedonic treadmill you'd come back to where you are. And likewise though, because you think oh my god, what if I had to, you know, have this kind of job that I never would want or I had this kind of marriage that I never would want. You know what? If you did, you would adjust and you get used to it and you might not be that much less happy than you are now. So on the other side of the you being okay going back, you know, you we would survive if we had to go back. You know, we'd have to learn some skills and but we would buck up and you know, people have gone to war before that we're in the shopkeepers a year before that. They were in the trenches the next year. But on the other hand, if you brought them here, you know, I always think it was so fun to just bring forget the hunter gatherers bring a 1700s person here and tore them around. Take them on an airplane and show them your phone and all the things that can do. Show them the internet. Show them the grocery store. Imagine taking them to a whole food. Likewise, I think they would be completely awestruck and on their knees crying tears of joy and then they'd get used to it and they'd be a complain about like they don't you don't have the oranges and stock is like, you know, and that's the grocery store is a tall phone to get used to. Like when I when I first came to this country, the the abundance of bananas was the thing that struck me the most or like fruits in general but food in general, but bananas somehow struck me the most that you could just eat them as much as you want. That took a long time for me. Probably took several years to really get acclimated to that. Why didn't you have bananas? The number of bananas fresh bananas. That wasn't available. Bread yes bananas no. Yeah, it's like we don't even know what to hat like we don't even know the proper levels of gratitude. Yeah, walking around the grocery store, I don't know to be like the bread's nice but the bananas are like we're so lucky. I don't know. I'm like, oh, I could have been the other way out of no idea. Well, it's interesting then where we point our gratitude in the west in the United States. Probably do we point it away from materialist possessions towards or do we just aspire to do that towards other human beings that we love because in the east and the Soviet Union growing up poor is having food is the gratitude, having transportation is gratitude, having warmth and shelter's gratitude. And now but see within that the deep gratitude is for other human beings. It's the penguins huddling together for warmth in the cold. I think it's a person by person basis. I mean, I'm sure yes, of course in the west people on average feel gratitude towards different things or maybe a different level of gratitude. Maybe we feel less gratitude than some than countries that you know, obviously I think the easiest, the person that's most likely to feel gratitude is going to be someone who's on whose whose life happens to be one where they just move up up throughout their life. A lot of people in the greatest generation, you know, people who were born in the 20s or whatever. And a lot of the boomers too, this story is the greatest generation group dirt poor and they often ended up middle class. And the boomers, some of them started off middle class and many of them ended up quite wealthy. And I feel like that life trajectory is naturally going to foster gratitude, right? Because you're not going to take for granted these things because you didn't have them. You know, I didn't go out of the country really and my childhood very much. You know, like, you know, we traveled but it was to Virginia to see my grandparents or Wisconsin to see other relatives or, you know, maybe Florida after going on to the beach. And then I started going out of the country like crazy in my 20s because I really, okay, my favorite thing. And I feel like because I, if I had grown up always doing that, it would have been another thing. I'm like, yeah, that's just something I do. But I still every time I go to a new country, I'm like, oh my god, this is so cool. In another country, this thing I've only seen on the map. I'm like, I'm there now. And so I feel like it's a lot of times it's a product of what you didn't have. And then you suddenly had. But I still think it's case by case in that there's a there's like a meter in everyone's head, you know, that I think on on at a 10, you are you're experiencing just immense gratitude, right? Which is a euphoric feeling. It's a great feeling. And it's it makes you happy. It's it's it's the saver what you have to look down at the mountain of stuff that you have that you're standing on, right? To look to look down at and say, oh my god, I'm so lucky. And I'm so grateful for this and this and this and I, you know, obviously that's a happy exercise. Now when you move the meter a meter down to six or seven, maybe you think that sometimes, but you're you're not always thinking that because you're sometimes looking up at this cloud of things that you don't have and the things that they have, but you don't or the things you wished you had, do you thought you were going to have or whatever. And that's the opposite direction to look, right? And that's the either that's envy, that's yearning, or often it's it's it's if you think about your past, it's it's grievance, right? And so then you go on to a one and you have someone who feels like a complete victim. They are just a victim of the society of the their their their siblings and their parents and their their loved one. And they are they're the wallowing in every one of them that's happened wrong to me. Everything I should have that I don't everything that has gone wrong for me. And so that's a very unhealthy, mentally unhealthy place to be. Anyone can go there, you know, there's an endless list of stuff you can you it can be agreed about and an endless list of stuff you can have gratitude for. And so it's in some ways it's a choice and it's a habit. And maybe it's part of how we were raised or a natural demeanor, but it's such a good extra you were really good at this bottom right? Your Twitter is like go on. And well like like you're you you you you are constantly just saying man I'm lucky or like I'm I'm so grateful for this. And that's it's it's a good thing to do because you're reminding yourself but you're also reminding other people to think that way. And it's like we are lucky. You know, and and so anyway, I think that scale can go from one to 10 and I think it's hard to be a 10. I think you'd be very happy if you could be, but I think trying to be above a five and looking down at the things you have more often than you are looking up at the things you don't are being resentful about the things that people have wronged you and well the interesting thing I think was an open question, but I suspect that you can control that knob for for the individual like you yourself can choose like the stoic philosophy you could choose where you are as a matter of habit like you said, but you can also probably control that in scale of a family of a tribe of a nation of a society. I mean, you can describe a lot of the things that happens in Nazi Germany in different other parts of history through a sort of societal envy and resentment that builds up. Maybe certain narratives pick up and then they infiltrate your mind and then not your knob goes to from the gratitude for everything it goes to resentment and envy and all this. Germany between the two world wars, you know, like you said the Soviet kind of mentality. When you're soaking in a culture, so there's this kind of two factors, right? It's it's what's going on in your own head and then what's surrounding you and what's surrounding you kind of has concentric circles. There's your immediate group of people because that group of people, if they're a certain way, they feel a lot of gratitude and they talk about it a lot. That kind of insulates you from the broader culture because you know, the people are going to have the most impact on you are the ones closest. But often they're all the concentric circles are saying the same thing that people around you or that feeling the same way that the broader community, which is feeling the same way as the broader country. And you know, I think this is why I think American patriotism, you know, nationalism, you know, can be tribal, can be very not not a good thing. Patriotism, I think is is a great thing because really what is patriotism? I mean, it's if you love your country, you should love your fellow countrymen, you know, to patriot, you know, that's a Reagan code. It's like patriotism is like, I think a feeling of like unity and but it also comes along with an implicit kind of concept of gratitude because it's like we are so lucky to live in, you know, people, you know, think it's show of aness to say we live in the best country in the world, right? And you know, yes, when Americans say that, no one likes it, right? But actually, it's not a bad thing to think. It's a nice thing to think. It thinks it's a way of saying I'm so grateful for all the great things of this country gives to me and this country is done. And I think, you know, if you heard the Philip, you know, a Filipino person say, you know what? The Philippines is the best country in the world. No one in America would say that's show of an aness. It's like awesome, right? Because when it's coming from someone, you know, if he's not American, it sounds totally fine. But I think, I think, you know, national pride is actually good. Now again, that can quickly translate into xenophobia and nationalism. And so, you know, you have to make sure it doesn't go off that cliff. But yeah, there's good ways to formulate that. Like you talk about, we'll talk about like high wrong progressivism, high wrong conservatism. Those are two different ways of, of embodying patriotism. So you can talk about maybe loving the tradition that this country stands for, or you can talk about loving the people, the that ultimately push progress. And those are, from an intellectual perspective, a good way to represent patriotism. We've got to zoom out because this graphic is epic. A lot of images in your book are just epic on their own. It's brilliantly done. But this one has famous people for each of the cards, like the best of. Yeah. And by the way, good for them to be the person. Yeah. That it's not that I could have chosen lots of people for each card. But I think most people would agree, you know, that's a pretty fair choice for each, each page. And to good for them to be, you know, you do, you crushed it if you can be the person for your whole 250 year page. So well, I noticed people Gandhi didn't put Hitler. I mean, there's a lot of people going to argue with you about that particular last page. True. Yes, you're right. I could have, I could have put him. I actually, I was thinking about Darwin there too. Darwin. But it's done. Yeah, exactly. You really could have put anyone. You think about putting yourself first. Yeah, I should have. I should have. That would have been awesome. Sure. That would have endeared the readers to me from right from beginning of the first page of the book. A little bit of a mess. I had a complex going on. But yeah. So the list of people just, you know, so these are 250 year chunks. Yeah. The last one being from 1770 to 2020. And so it goes Gandhi, Shakespeare, Joan of Arc, Jankus Khan, Charlemagne, Muhammad, Constantine, Jesus, Cleopatra, Aristotle, Buddha. It's so interesting to think about this very recent human history. That's 11 pages. So it'd be 2750, almost 3000 years. Just that there's these figures that stand out and that define the course of human history. It's like the craziest thing to me is that like Buddha was a dude. He was a guy with like arms and legs and fingernails that he might be bit and like he liked certain foods. And maybe he got like, you know, he had like digestive issues sometimes. And like he got cuts and they stung. And like he was a guy and he had hopes and dreams and he probably had a big ego for a while before he, I guess, Buddha totally overcame that one. But like, and it's like who knows, you know, you know, the myth, the mythical figure of Buddha, who knows how similar he was. But the fact is him, Jesus, this was a guy. Like to me, it's, he's a primate. What impact? He was a cell first and then a baby. Yeah. And there's a fetus at some point. A dumb baby trying to learn how to walk. Yeah. Like having a tantrum. Yeah. Because he's frustrated because he's in the terrible too. Jesus was in the terrible too. Buddha never had a tantrum. Let's be honest. The myth. The mother was like, this baby's great. Let's figure something out. It just blood. I mean, this, I mean, listen, hearing it, learning about Genghis Khan. It's incredible to me because it's just like, this was some Mongolian, you know, herder guy who was taken as a slave and he was like dirt poor, you know, catching rats is a, you know, young teen with, you know, to feed him and his mom and his, I think his brother. And it's just like the odds on when he was born, he was just one of you know, probably tens of thousands of random teen boys living in Mongolia in the 1200s. The odds of that person, any one of them being a household name today that we're talking about, it's just crazy. Like what had to happen? And it's for that guy to, for that poor, dirt poor, herder to take over the world. I don't know. So history just like continually blows my mind. Like, you know, and he's the reason you and I are related probably. Yeah, no, I mean, it's also that's the other thing is that some of these dudes by becoming king by being having a better army at the right time, you know, William the Conquer or whatever has is in the right place at the right time with the right army, you know, and there's a weakness at the right moment and he comes over and he exploits it and ends up probably having, you know, I don't know, thousand children and those children are high up people who might be have a ton of the species is different now because of him. Like if that is, and forget England's different or you know, European borders look different. Like, like we are like we look different and because of a small handful of people, you know, certain, when I sometimes I think I'm like, oh, you know, this part of the world, I can recognize someone's Greek, you know, someone's Persian, someone's wherever because you know, they kind of have certain facial features. And I'm like, it may have happened. I mean, obviously it's that that's a population, but it may be that like someone 600 years ago that looked like that really spread their seed. And that's why the ethnicity looks kind of like that now. Sorry, anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Do you think individuals like that can turn the direction of history? Or is that an illusion that narrative would tell ourselves? Well, it's both. I mean, so I said William the Conqueror, right, or Hitler, right? It's not that Hitler was born in destined to be great at all, right? I think in a lot of cases, he's frustrated artist with a temper who's turning over the table in his studio and hitting his wife and being kind of a dick and a total nobody, right? I think almost all the times you could have put Hitler baby on earth. He's a he's a rando, right? You know, and maybe he's a, you know, maybe sometimes he becomes a, you know, some kind of, you know, he uses this speaking ability because that ability was going to be there either way, but maybe he uses it for something else. But, but that said, I don't I also do I think you, but it's not that, uh, War War II was going to happen either way, right? So it's it's both. It's that like these circumstances were one way. And this person came along at the right time and those two made a match made in this case, hell, but it makes you wonder, yes, it's a match in hell, but are there other people that could have taken us place or do these people that stand out? They're the rarest spark of, uh, that genius, whether it take us towards evil, towards good, whether those figures singularly define the trajectory of humanity. You know, what defines the trajectory of humanity in the 21st century, for example, might be the influence of AI, might be the influence of nuclear war, negative or positive, not in the case of nuclear war, but, uh, the bioengineering, nanotech, virology, what else is there? Maybe the structure of governments and so on. Maybe the structure of universities. I don't know. There could be singular figures that stand up and lead the world for human. There will be. But I wonder if the society is the thing that manifests that that person, or that person really does have a huge impact. I think it's probably a spectrum where there are some cases when a circumstance was such that something like what happened was going to happen. If you pluck that person from the earth, I don't know whether the Mongols is a good example or not, but maybe it could be that if you plucked Genghis Khan as a baby, there was because of the specific way Chinese civilization was at that time. And the specific climate that was causing a certain kind of pressure on the Mongols and the way they still had their great archers and they had their horses and they had a lot of the same advantages. So maybe it was like it was waiting to happen. It was going to happen either way and it might not have happened to the sit to the extent or whatever. So maybe, or you could go the full other direction and say actually this was probably not going to happen. And I think World War II is an example where I kind of think World War II really was kind of the work of, of course, it relied on all these other circumstances. You had to have the resentment in Germany. You have to have the great depression. But like I think if you take Hitler out, I'm pretty sure World War II doesn't happen. Well then it seems like easier to answer these questions when you look at history, even recent history, but let's look at not. Let's look at I'm sure we'll talk about social media. So who are the key players in social media? Mark Zuckerberg. What's the name of the Myspace guy? Tom? Tom. It's just Tom. Yeah. There's a meme going around where like Myspace is like the perfect social media because no algorithmic involvement. Everybody's happy and positive. Also Tom did it right. At the time you were like, oh man, Tom only made like a few million dollars. Oh, he sucks to not be zuck. Tom might be living a nice life right now where he doesn't have this nightmare that these other people have. Yeah. And he's always smiling. He's profiling. And so there's like Larry Page, so with Google, that's kind of intermingled into that whole thing, into the development of the internet. Jack Dorsey, now Elon, who else? I mean, there's people playing with the evolution of social media. And to me, that seems to be connected to the development of AI. And it seems like those singular figures will define the direction of AI development and social media development with social media seem to have such a huge impact on our collective intelligence. It does feel in one way like individuals have an especially big impact right now in that a small number of people are pulling some big levers. And you know, there can be a little meeting of three people at Facebook. And they come out and they come in. They come out of that meeting and make a decision that totally changes the world, right? On the other hand, you see a lot of a lot of conformity. You see a lot of greenery. They all pull the plug on Trump the same day, right? So that suggests that there's some bigger force that is also kind of driving them in which case it's less about the individuals. I think, you know, this is what, you know, what is leadership, right? I mean, to me, leadership is the ability to move things in a direction that the cultural forces are not already taking things, right? A lot of times people seem like a leader because they're just kind of hopping on the cultural wave and they happen to be the person who gets to the top of it. Now it seems like they're, but actually the way was already going. Like real leadership is when someone actually changes the wave, changes the shape of the wave. Like I think Elon with, you know, SpaceX and with Tesla. Like genuinely like shaped a wave. You know, maybe you could say that EVs were actually like, they were going to happen anyway, but it's not much evidence about at least happening when it did. You know, if we ended up on Mars, you know, you can say that Elon was a genuine like leader there. And so there are examples now. Like Zuckerberg definitely has done a lot of leadership along the way. He's also potentially kind of like caught in a storm that is happening. And you know, he's one of the figures in it. So I don't know. And it's possible that he is a big shaper if the metaverse becomes a reality. If in 30 years we're all living in a virtual world, to many people that seems ridiculous now that that that was a poor investment. Well, he talked about getting, you know, 10, you know, I think it was something like a billion people with a VR headset in their pocket in by, you know, I think it was 10 years from now back in 2015. So we're behind that. But when I he was talking about that. And honestly, I, this is something I've been wrong about because I went to like one of the Facebook conferences and tried out all the new Oculus stuff. And I was like, you know, pretty early talking to some of the, you know, major players there because I was going to write a big post about it that then got swallowed by this book. But, but I would have been wrong in the post because in what I would have said was that this thing is, you know, when I tried it, I was like, this is, you know, some of them were suck, some of them make you nauseous and they're just not that you're, you know, the headsets were big and, you know, but I was like, the times when this is good, it is, I have this feeling I haven't had, it reminds me of the feeling I had when I first was five and I went to a friend's house and he had an Nintendo. And I, and he gave me the controller and I was looking at the screen and I pressed the button and Mario jumped. And I said, I said, I can make this something on the screen move. And in the same feeling I had the first time someone showed me how to send an email. I was like, really early and he's like, you can send this and I was like, it goes, I can press enter on my computer and something happens on your computer. Those were obviously, you know, when you have that feeling, it often means you're witnessing a paradigm shift. And I thought, this is one of those things. And I still kind of think it is, but it's kind of weird that it hasn't, you know, like, where's the VR revolution? Like, yeah, I'm surprised because I'm with you. My first and still instinct is this feels like it changes everything. VR feels like it changes everything, but it's not changing anything. Like, a dumb part of my brain is genuinely convinced that this is real. And then the smart part knows it's not, but that's why the dumb part was like, we're not walking off that cliff. The smart part's like, you're on your rug. It's fine. The dumb part of my brain is like, I'm not walking off the cliff. So it's like, it's crazy. I feel like it's waiting for like that revolutionary person that who comes in and says, I'm going to create a headset. Like, I honestly, it's Steve Jobs, iPhone of honestly, a little bit of a comic type guy, which is why I was really interesting for him to be involved with Facebook is basically, how do we create a simple dumb thing that's a hundred bucks, but actually creates that experience. And then there's going to be some viral killer app on it. And that's going to be the gateway into a thing that's going to change everything. I mean, I don't know what exactly was the thing that changed everything with the personal computer. Does that understood why that maybe graphics? What was the use case? I mean, exactly. It wasn't the, the 1984 Macintosh, like a moment when it was like, this is actually something that normal people can and want to use. Because it was less than $5,000, I think, it was just some like Steve Jobs user friendliness already to it that other ones didn't had. I think Windows 95 was a really big deal yet. I remember like, because I'm old enough to remember the MS-DOS when I was like, kind of remember the command. And then suddenly this concept of like a window you drag something into or you double click an icon, which now seems like so obvious to us, was like revolutionary because it made it, it made it intuitive. So, you know, I don't know, yeah. Windows 95 was good. It was crazy, yeah. I forget what the big leap was because Windows 2000 was sucked. And then Windows XP was good. I moved to Mac around 2004. So I styled your soul to the devil. I see. Well, us, the people still use Windows and Android, the device in the operating system of the people. Not you, Aletus folk with your books and your what else? Success. Okay. You write more technology means better good times, but it also means better bad times. And the scary thing is, if the good and bad keep exponentially growing, it doesn't matter how great the good times become. If the bad gets to a certain level of bad, it's all over for us. Can you elaborate on this? Why is there, why does the bad have that property? That if it's all exponentially getting more powerful, then the bad is going to win in the end. Was is my misinterpreting that interesting? No. So the first thing is I noticed a trend, which was like, the centuries, the good is getting better every century. Like the 20th century was the best century yet in terms of prosperity, in terms of GDP per capita, in terms of life expectancy, in terms of poverty and disease, and every metric that matters. The 20th century was incredible. It also had the biggest wars in history, the biggest genocide in history, the biggest existential threat yet with nuclear weapons. The depression was probably as big an economic. So it's this interesting thing where the stakes are getting higher in both directions. And so the question is, if you get enough good, does that protect you against the bad? The dream, and I do think this is possible too, is the good gets so good. You know, you ever read the culture series that you in banks books? Not yet, but I get criticized on a daily basis by some of the mutual folks we know for not having done so. Lots of that. And I feel like a lesson man for it. Yes, I need to say. So that's how I got onto it. And I read six of the 10 books. And they're great. But the thing I love about them is like it just paints one of these futuristic societies where the good has gotten so good that the bad is not no longer even an issue. Like basically in the way that this works is the AI, you know, the AI's are benevolent and they control everything. And so like there's one random anecdote where they're like, you know, what happens if you murder someone in, because you still, you know, there's still people with rage and jealousy or whatever. So someone murder someone. First of all, that person's backed up. So it's like they helped again in a new body and it's it's annoying, but it's like it's not death. And secondly, that person, what are they going to do? Put them in jail? No, no, no, they're just going to send a slap drone around, which is this little like tiny, you know, random drone that just will float around next to them forever. And by the way, kind of be their servant. It's kind of fun to have a slap drone, but just making sure that they never do anything. And it's like, oh man, it could just be everyone can be so safe. And everything could be so like, you know, you want a house, you know, the, as well, bill your house, there's endless space, there's endless resources. So I do think that that could be part of our future. That's part of what excites me is like there is, like today would seem like a utopia to Thomas Jefferson, right? Thomas Jefferson's world will seem like a utopia to a caveman. There is a future. And by the way, these are happening faster, these jumps, right? So the thing that would seem like a utopia to us, we could experience in our own lifetimes, right? Like it's especially a phenolife extension, you get combines with exponential progress. I want to get there. And I think if in that part of what makes it utopia is you don't have to be scared of the worst bad guy in the world trying to do the worst damage because we have protection. But that said, I'm not sure how that happens. Like it's, it's, it's either easier said than done. Nick Bostrom uses the example of if nuclear weapons could be manufactured by microwaving sand. For example, we probably would be in the Stone Age right now because 0.001% of people would love to destroy all humanity, right? Some 16 year old with huge mental health problems who right now goes and shoots up a school would say, Oh, even better, I'm going to blow up a city. And now suddenly there's copycats, right? And so that's like, as our technology grows, it's going to be easier for the worst bad guys to do in tremendous damage. And it's easier to destroy than to build. So it takes a tiny, tiny number of these people with enough power to do bad. So that, to me, I'm like, the stakes are going up because what we have to lose is this incredible utopia. But also, like, dystopia is real. It happens. The Romans ended up in a dystopia. They've probably earlier thought that was never possible. Like, we should not get cocky. And so to me that, that trend is the exponential tech is a double edge sword. It's so exciting. I'm happy to be alive now overall because I'm an optimist and I find it exciting. But it's really scary and the dumbest thing we can do is not be scared. The dumbest thing we can do is get cocky and think, well, my life is always the last couple generations. Everything's been fine. Stop that. What's your gut? What percentage of trajectories take us towards the, as you put, unimaginably good future versus unimaginably bad future? Is it like, is as an optimist? It's really hard to know. I mean, I'll like, you know, one of the things we can do is look at history. And on one hand, there's a lot of stories. I actually listening to a great podcast right now called The Fall of Civilizations. And it's literally every episode is like, you know, a little like two-hour deep dive into some civilization. Some are really famous like the Roman Empire, some are more obscure like the the Norerson Greenland. But it's, each one is so interesting. But what's, it's, I mean, there's a lot of civilizations that had their peak. There's always the peak, right, when they're thriving and they're max size and, and, and they have their waterways and they have their civilized and their representative and its fair and whatever. I'm not, not always, but it's, it's, the peak is the great. You know, if I could go back in time, you know, it's not that you don't, you know, the farther you go back, the worse it gets. No, no, no, you want to go back to a civilization during, I would go to the Roman Empire in the year 100. Sounds great, right? You don't want to go to the Roman Empire in the year 400. We might be in the peak right now here. Whatever it's the Empire. Honestly, I think about like the 80s, you know, the 70s, the 80s, the, the music. No, no, I, so much better. No, the 80s culture is so annoying. It's just like, I'm, I'm, I'm, when I read, when I listen to these things, I'm thinking, you know, the 80s and 90s, America, the 90s was popular. People forget that now. Like Clinton was, I was a superstar around the world. Michael Jordan was exported internationally than basketball was everywhere suddenly. You had like music, the sports, whatever. It was a little probably like the 50s, you know, you coming out of the world, the world war and the depression before it, it was like this kind of like everyone was in a good mood kind of time, you know, it's like a finished a big project and it's Saturday. It was like, I feel like the 50s was kind of like everyone was having it, you know, the 20s, I feel like everyone was in good mood randomly. Then the 30s everyone was in a bad mood. But the 90s, I think we'll look back on it as a time when everyone was in a good mood. And it was like, you know, again, of course at the time it doesn't feel that way necessarily. But I look at that, I'm like, maybe that was kind of America's peak and like maybe not, but like it hasn't been popular since really worldwide. It's gone in and out depending on the country, but like it hasn't reached that level of like America's awesome around the world. And the political, you know, situations got and, you know, really ugly and you know, maybe it's social media, maybe who knows, but I wonder if it'll ever be as simple and positive as it was then. Like maybe we are in the, you know, it feels a little like maybe we're in the beginning of the down, or not because these things don't just, it's not a perfect smooth hill. It goes up and down, up and down. So maybe we're, there's another big upcoming. And it's unclear whether public opinion, which is kind of what you're talking to, is correlated strongly with influence. You could say that even though America's been on a decline in terms of public opinion, the exporting of technology, the America has still with all the talk of China has still been leading leading the way in terms of AI in terms of social media in terms of just basically any software related product like trip chips. Yeah, chips. So hardware and software, I mean, America leads the way. You could argue that Google and Microsoft and Facebook are no longer American companies, they're international companies, but they really are still at the, you know, headquartered in Silicon Valley broadly speaking. So in Tesla, of course, and just all of it's all the technological innovation still seems to be happening in the United States, although culturally and politically, it's not, it's not, it's not good. Well, maybe that could shift at any moment when all the technological development can actually be, create some positive impact in the world that can shift it, but the right leadership and so on, with the right messaging. Yeah, I think I don't feel confident at all about whether, no, no, I don't mean that, I don't mean I don't feel confident in my opinion that we may be on the downswing or that we may be on, because I truly don't know. It's like I think the people, these are really big macro stories that are really hard to see when you're inside of them. It's like, it's like being on a beach and running around a few miles this way and trying to suss out the shape of the coastline. It's just really hard to see the big picture. You get caught up in the micro stories, the little tiny ups and downs that are part of some bigger trend. And also giant paradigm shifts happen quickly nowadays. The internet came out of nowhere and suddenly was like, you know, changed everything. So there could be a change everything thing on the way. It seems like there's a few candidates for it. And like, but, but I mean, it feels like the stakes are just high. It higher than it even was for the Romans higher than it was for because that we, we're more powerful as a species. We have God-like powers with technology that other civilizations that their peak didn't have. And so I wonder if those high stakes and powers will feel laughable to people that live humans, aliens, cyborgs, whatever lives on a year or some now that maybe maybe our little, like, this feeling of political and technological turmoil is nothing. Well, that's the big question. You could ease. So right now, you know, you know, the 1890s was like a super politically contentious decade in the US. It was like immense tribalism and the newspapers were all like lying and telling you know, you know, there was a lot of like what we would associate with today's media, the worst of it. And it was over at Gold or Silver being this, I don't know, it was very, it's something that I don't understand. But the point is it was a little bit of a blip, right? It happened. It felt, it must have felt like the end of days at the time. And then now we, and most people don't even know about that. Versus, you know, again, the Roman Empire actually collapsed. And so the question is just like, is yeah, you know, will in 50 years, will this be like, or like McCarthyism? Oh, they had like, oh, that was like a crazy few years in America. And then it was fine. Or is this the beginning of something really big? And that's what I wonder if we can predict what the big thing is at the beginning. It feels like we're not. We're just here along with the ride. And at the local level and at every level, I try to do our best. Well, how do we do our best? That's the one thing I know for sure is that we need to have our wits about us and do our best and the way that we can do that. You know, we have to be as wise as possible, right? To proceed forward. And wisdom is an emergent property of discourse. So you're a proponent of wisdom versus stupidity because you can make a, uh, I can steal man the case for stupidity. Do it. I probably can't. But there's some, I think wisdom, and you talk about this, can come with a false confidence arrogance. I mean, you talk about this in the book. That's two easy. That's not wisdom. If you're being arrogant, you're being unwise. Unwise. Yeah, I think, I think wisdom is doing what people 100 years from now with the hindsight that we don't have would do if they could come back in time and they knew everything. It's like, how do we figure out how to have hindsight when we actually are not what if stupidity is the thing that people from 100 years from now will see as wise. I mean, the idiot by the CS key being naive and trusting everybody. Maybe that's lucky. Then, then, then, then, you know, then maybe you get to a good, a good future by stumbling upon it. But ideally, you, you can get there. Like, I think a lot of, we, the, the America, the great things about it have our product of the wisdom of previous Americans. You know, the constitution was a pretty, you know, pretty wise system to set up. There's not much stupid stumbling around. Well, there is, I mean, with the CS keys, the idiot, Prince Michigan and brothers, Kamazov, there's a Liosha Kamazov, you air on the side of love and almost like a naive trust in other human beings. And that turns out to be at least in my perspective, in long term, for the success of the species is actually wisdom. It's a compass. We don't know. It's a compass when you're in the fog. In the fog. It's a compass. Yeah. Love is a compass. Okay, but, but here's the thing. So I think we should have a compass is nice, but you know what else is nice is a flashlight in the fog. They can help you can't see that far, but you can see, oh, you can see four feet ahead instead of one foot. And that to me is discourse. That is open, vigorous, like discussion in a culture that fosters that is how the species, how the, the American citizens as a unit can be as wise as possible, can maybe see four feet ahead instead of one foot ahead. That said, Charles Bukowski said that love is a fog that fades with the first light of reality. So I don't know how that works out, but I feel like this intermixing a metaphor is that works. Okay, you also write that quote as the authors of the story of us, which is this thousand page book, we have no mentors, no editors, no one to make sure it all turns out. Okay, it's all in our hands. This scares me, but it's also gives me hope. If we can all get just a little wiser together, it may be enough to nudge the story on touch trajectory that points towards an unimaginably good future. Do you think we can possibly define what a good future looks like? I mean, this is the problem with that we ran into with communism of thinking of utopia, of having a deep confidence about what a utopia in the world looks like. Well, it's a deep confidence, that was a deep confidence about the instrumental way to get there. It was that, you know, I think a lot of us can agree that if everyone had everything they needed and we didn't have disease or poverty and people could live as long as they wanted to and choose one to die and there was no existential major existential threat because we can, I think almost everyone can agree that would be great. The communism is a, that was they said, this is the way to get there. And that is that that's a different question, you know, so the unimaginably good future I'm picturing. I think a lot of people would picture and I think most people would agree, not not everyone. There's a lot of people out there who would say humans are the scourge on the earth and we should degrease or something, but I think a lot of people would agree that, you know, just again, take Thomas Jefferson bring him here. He would see it as a utopia for obvious reasons for the medicine, the food, the transportation, just how the quality of life and the safety and all of that. So extrapolate that forward for us. Now, we're Thomas Jefferson, you know, what's the equivalent? That's what I'm talking about. And the big question is I actually don't, I don't try to say here's the way to get there. Here's the actual specific way to get there. I try to say, how do we have a flashlight so that we can together figure it out? Like how do we give ourselves the best chance of figuring out the way to get there? And I think part of the problem with communists and people is ideologues is that they're way too overconfident that they know the way to get there. And it becomes a religion to them, this solution. And then you're not, you can't update once you have a solution as a religion. And so I felt a little violated when you said communist and stare deeply into myself. So in this book, you've developed a framework for how to fix everything. It's called the latter. Can you explain it? Okay, it's not a framework for how to fix everything. I would never say that. I'll explain it to Tim Irwin at some point. Okay. Call this humor thing work. Yeah, no. Framework of how to think about collaboration between humans such that we could fix things. I think it's a compass. It's like a it's a ruler that we can once we look at it together and see what it is, we can all say, oh, we want to go to that side of the ruler. So not this side. And so it gives us a direction to go. So what are the parts of the latter? So I have these two characters. This orange guy, the primitive mind is this is our software. That is the software that was in a 50,000 BC person's head that was specifically optimized for to help that person survive in that world and not even not just not really survive but help them pass their genes on in that world. And civilization happened quickly and brains changed slowly. And so that unchanged dude is still running the show in our head. And I use the example of like Skittles. Like why do we eat Skittles? Trash. It's obviously bad for you. And it's because the primitive mind in the world that it was programmed for. There was no Skittles and it was just fruit and you know, and if there was a dense, chewy, sweet fruit like that it meant you just found like a calorie gold mine. Energy, energy. Take it, take it, eat as much as you can. Gorge on it. Hopefully you get a little fat. That would be the dream. And now we're so good with energy for a while. I don't have to stress about it anymore. So today Mars Inc is clever and says let's not sell things to people's higher minds, who's the other character. Let's sell the people's primitive minds. Primitive minds are dumb. And let's trick them into thinking this is this thing you should eat. And then they'll eat it. Now Mars Inc is a huge company. Actually, just to look at real quick, you said primitive mind and higher minds. So those are the two things that make up this bigger mind that it is the modern human being. Yeah. It's like, you know, it's not perfect. Obviously there's a lot of crossover. There's people who will yell at me for saying there's two minds and you know, but to me it's still a useful framework where you have this software that has making decisions based on a world that you're not in anymore. And then you've got this other character I call it the higher mind. And it's the part of you that knows that skills are not good and can override the instinct. And the reason you don't always eat skills is because the higher mind says, no, no, no, we're not doing that because that's bad. And I know that, right? Now you can apply that to a lot of things. The higher mind is the one that knows I shouldn't procrastinate the primitive mind is the one that wants to conserve energy and not do anything icky and you know, can't see the future. So we procrastinate the, you know, you can apply this. No, I in this book apply it to to how we form our beliefs is one of the ways. And then eventually to politics and political movements. But like, if you think about what, well, what's the equivalent of the Skittles tug of war in your head for how do you form your beliefs? And it's that the primitive mind in the world that it was optimized for, it wanted to feel conviction about its beliefs. It wanted to be sure that it was wanted to feel conviction and it wanted to agree with the people around there didn't want to stand out. It wanted to, to perfectly agree with the tribe about the tribe's sacred beliefs, right? And so there's a big part of us that wants to do that that doesn't like changing our mind. It feels like it's part of our, the primitive mind identifies with beliefs. It feels like it says threat, a physical threat to you to your primitive mind when you change your mind or when someone disagrees with you in a smart way. So there's that huge force in us, which is confirmation bias. That's where that comes from. It's, it's this, this desire to keep believing what we believe and this desire to also fit in with our beliefs to believe with the people around us believe. And that can be fun in some ways. We all like the same sports team and we're all super into it. And we're all going to be biased about that call together. I mean, that it's not always bad, but it's not a very smart way to be. And it you're actually, you're working kind of for those ideas. Those ideas are like your boss. And you're working so hard to keep believing those. Those ideas are, you know, a really paper comes in that you read that that conflicts with those ideas. And you will do all this work to say that paper bullshit because you're a faithful employee of those ideas. Now the higher mind to me, the same party that can override the skittles can override this and can, and can search for something that makes a lot more sense, which is truth. Because what rational being wouldn't want to know the truth who wants to be delusional. And so there's this tug of war because the higher mind doesn't identify with ideas. Why would you? It's an experiment you're doing. And it's a mental model. And if someone can come over and say, you're wrong, you say, where are you? Show me, show me. And if they point out something that is wrong, you say, Oh, thanks. Oh, good. I just got a little smarter, right? You're not going to identify with the thing. Go, go, go, kick it. See if you can break it. If you can break it, it's not that good. Right. So there's both of these in our heads. And there's this tug of war between them. And sometimes, you know, if you're telling me about something with AI, I'm probably going to think with my higher mind because I'm not identified with him. If you go and you criticize the ideas in this book or you criticize my religious beliefs, or you criticize, I might have a harder time because the primitive mind says, no, no, no, those are our special ideas. And so, yeah, so that's that's one way to use this ladder is like, it's a spectrum, you know, at the top, the higher mind is doing all the thinking. And then as you go down, it becomes more of a tug of war. And at the bottom, the primitive mind is in total control. And this is distinct as you show from the spectrum of ideas. So this is how you think versus what you think and those are distinct, those are different dimensions. We need we need a vertical axis. We have all these horizontal axes left right center or, you know, this opinion all the way to this opinion, but it's like, what's much more important than where you stand is how you got there, right? And how you think. So this helps if I can say this person's kind of on the left or on the right, but they're up high. I think in other words, I think they got there using evidence and reason and they were willing to change their mind. Now that means a lot to me what they have to say. If I think they're just a tribal person and I can predict all their beliefs from hearing one because it's so obvious what political beliefs, that person's views are irrelevant to me because they're not real. They didn't come from information. They came from a tribe's kind of, you know, sacred 10 commandments. I really like the comic you have in here about with the boxer. This is the best boxer in the world. Wow, cool. Who has he beaten? No one he's never fought anyone. Then how do you know he's the best boxer in the world? I can just tell. I mean, this connects with me and I think with a lot of people just because in martial arts, it's especially kind of true that this whole legend about different martial artists and that kind of we construct action figures like, you know, thinking that Steven Seagulls is the best fighter in the world or Chuck Norris. Chuck Norris is actually backed up. He's done really well in competition, but still the ultimate test for particular for martial arts is what we now know is mixed martial arts. You have seen so on. That's the actual scientific testing ground. It's a meritocracy. Yeah, exactly. I mean, there's within certain rules and you can criticize those rules like this doesn't actually represent the broader combat that you would think of when you think about martial arts, but reality is you're actually testing things. And that's when you realize that I keto and some of these kind of woo woo martial arts in their certain implementations don't work in the way you think they would in the context of fighting. I think this is one of the places where everyone can agree, which is why it's a really nice comic because then you start to talk about map this onto ideas that people take personally. It starts becoming a lot more difficult to to basically highlight the worth thinking with not with our higher mind, but with our primitive mind. Yeah, I mean, if I'm thinking about my higher mind and now here is you can use different things for an idea as a metaphor. So here the metaphor is a boxer for one of your conclusions, one of your beliefs. And if I'm if I'm if I'm if I like care about his truth, in other words, for the but that means all I care about is having a good boxer. I would say go go yeah, try see if this person's good, go go. I would in other words, I would get into arguments, which is throwing my boxer out there to fight against other ones. And if I think my arguments good, by the way, I love boxing. If I think my guy is is amazing, you know, Mike Tyson, I'm thinking, oh yeah, bring it on. Who wants to come see? I bet no one can beat my boxer. I love a good debate, right? In that case, now what would you think about my boxer? If not only had I was I telling you he was great, but he's never boxed anyone. But then you said, okay, well, your idea came over to try to punch him. And I screamed and I said, what are you doing? That's violence and you're you're in your and you're an awful person. And I don't want to be friends with you anymore, because you you would think this boxer obviously sucks. And or at least I think it sucks deep down because why would I be so anti anyone? No boxing allowed. You know, people so I think if you're in so this I call this a ladder, right? If you're in low-rung land, you know, whether it's a culture or whatever, a debate and argument when someone says, no, that's totally wrong. What you're saying about that. And here's why we're being you're actually being totally biased. It sounds like a fact. People are going to say, oh, wow, we got in like a fight. It was really awkward. Like, I don't know, we still friends with that person because that's not a culture of boxing. It's a culture where you don't touch each other's ideas. That's insensitive versus in a high wrong culture. It's sport. That's I mean, like everyone in your podcast, whether you're agreeing or disagreeing, the tone is the same. It's not like, oh, this got awkward. It's like, the tone is identical because you're just playing intellectually either way because it's a good high wrong space. At his best, at his best, but people do take stuff personally. And then that's actually one of the skills of conversation, just as a fan of podcasts is when you sense that people take a thing personally, you have to like, there's sort of methodologies and little paths you can take to like, compings, though. Like, go around the don't take it as a violation of like, you're trying to suss out which of their ideas are sacred to them. And which ones are bringing on. And sometimes it's actually, I mean, that's the skill of it, I suppose that sometimes it's the certain wardings in the way you challenge those ideas are important. You can you can challenge them indirectly and then together walk together in that way. And because they're what I've learned is people are used to their ideas being attacked in a certain way, in a certain tribal way. And if you just avoid those, like for example, if you have political discussions and just never mentioned left or right or a Republican and Democrat, none of that, just talk about different ideas and avoid certain kind of triggering words. You can actually talk about ideas versus falling into this path that's well established through battles that people have previously fought. Well, you say triggering, I mean, who's getting triggered the primitive mind. So what you're trying to do, what you're saying in this language is how do you have conversations with other people's higher minds, almost like whispering without waking up the primitive mind. Yeah, that's a minute of mine. Is there a sleeping right? And as soon as you say, as soon as you say something, the left term of mind gets up and says, what, what are you saying about the left? And now, now that everything goes off the rails. What do you make of conspiracy theories under this framework of the latter? So here's the thing about conspiracy theories is that once in a while they're true, right? Because sometimes there's a natural conspiracy. Actually, humans are pretty good at real conspiracies, secret things. And then, you know, I just watched the made-off doc, great new Netflix doc, by the way. And so the question is, how do you create a system that is good at you put the conspiracy theory in? And it either goes at or it says, is interesting. Let's keep exploring it. Like, how do you put, how do you do something that it can, how do you assess? And so again, I think the high-rank culture is really good at it because a real conspiracy, what's going to happen is you put it, it's like a, a little machine you put in the middle of the table and everyone starts firing dark center, a bow and arrow or whatever, and everyone starts kicking it and trying to. And almost all conspiracy theories, they quickly crumble, right? Because they actually, you know, you know, Trump's election won. I actually dug in and I looked at like every claim that he or his team made and I was like, all of these, none of these hold up to scrutiny. None of them. I was open-minded, but none of them did. So that was one that as soon as it's open to scrutiny, it crumbles. The only way that conspiracy can stick around in a community is if it is a culture where that's being treated as a sacred idea that no one should kick or throw a dart at because if you throw a dart, it's going to break. So it's being, it's, and so the, the way you want is a, is a culture where no idea is sacred. Anything can get thrown at. And so I think that then what you'll find is that 994 out of 100 conspiracy theories come in and they fall down. The other maybe four of the others come in and there's something there, but it's not as extreme as people say. And then maybe one is a huge deal and it's actually a real conspiracy. Well, isn't there a lot of gray area and there's a lot of mystery? Isn't that where the conspiracy theories see been? So it's great to hear that you've really looked into the, the, the Trump election fraud claims. But aren't they resting on a lot of kind of gray area? Like fog? Basically saying that there is dark forces in the shadows that are actually controlling everything. I mean, the same thing with maybe you can, there's like safer conspiracy theories more, less controversial. I was like, have we landed on the moon? Right? The United States ever land on the moon. There's, you know, you, like the reason those conspiracy theories work is you could construct. There's, and sent us a motivation for faking the moon landing. There's a lot of, there's a, there's very little data supporting the moon landing. Like that's very public and kind of looks fakes. Basically that would be a big story if it turned, turned out to be fake. That's the art. That's what I would be arguing against. They like are people really as a collective going to hold on to a story that big? Yeah. So that, but, but there's a lot that the reason they work is there's mystery. Yeah. There's a great documentary called Behind the Curve about flat earthers and one of the things that you learn about flat earthers is they believe all the conspiracies, not just the flat earth. They're, they're convinced the moon landing is fake. They're convinced 9-11 was an American con job. They're convinced, you know, that name of conspiracy and they believe it. And so it's so interesting is that I think of it as a, as a skepticism spectrum. Yeah. So on one side, you, it's like a filter in your head, filter in your, in the belief section of your brain. On one end of the spectrum, you are gullible, perfectly gullible. You believe anything someone says, right? On the other side, you're paranoid. You think everyone's lying to you, right? Everything's, everything is false. Nothing that anyone says is true. Right. So obviously those are in good places to be. Now the healthy place, I think that the, so, so, so I think the healthy place is to be somewhere in the middle. And but also you can learn to trust certain sources and then, you know, you don't have to do as much, apply as much skepticism to them. And so here's what like, and when you start having a bias, just say you have a political bias, when your side says something, you, you will find yourself moving towards the gullible side of the spectrum. You read an article written that supports your views. You move to the gullible side of the spectrum and you just believe it and you don't have any, where's that skepticism that you normally have, right? And then you move, and then you soon, as soon as it's the other person talking, the other team talking, you move to the skeptical, the closer to the, to the, to the, you know, indenisal paranoid side. Now, flat earthers are the extreme. They are either at 10 or one. So it's like, it's so interesting because they're the people who are saying, ah, no, I won't believe you. I'm not gullible. No, the, everyone else is gullible about the moon landing. I won't. And then yet when there's this evidence like, oh, because you can't see Seattle, you can't see the buildings over that horizon and you should, which isn't true. You should be, if it were, if the earth around you wouldn't be able to see them. Therefore, it's, so suddenly the most gullible person here, any theory about the earth flat, they believe it. It goes right into their beliefs. So they're actually jumping back and forth between refusing to believe anything and believe anything. And so they're the extreme example. But I think when it comes to conspiracy theories, the people that get themselves in the trouble are the ones who they, they, they become really gullible when they hear a conspiracy theory that kind of fits with their worldview. And they likewise, when there's something that's kind of obviously true and it's not a big lie, they will actually, they'll, they'll think it is. They, they, they just tighten up their kind of skepticism filter. And so, yeah. So I think the healthy place is to be is where you are not, because you also don't want to be the person who says every conspiracy, you hear the word conspiracy theory and it sounds like a, like a synonym for like quack job crazy theory, right? So, yeah. So I think, yeah, I think it's, it's somewhere in the middle of that spectrum and to learn to fine tune it, which is a tricky place to operate. Because you kind of have to, every time you hear a new conspiracy theory, you should approach it with an open mind. And, you know, and also if you don't have enough time to investigate, which most people don't kind of still have a humility, not to make a conclusive statement that that's not says. There's a lot of um, social pressure, actually, yeah, to immediately laugh off any conspiracy theory. If it's done by the, the bad guys, right? You will quickly get mocked and laughed at and not taken seriously. If you give any credence, you know, back to lab leak was that was a good one where it's like turned out that that was at least very credible, if not true. And that was a perfect example of one where when it first came out, and not only so, so, so Brett Weinstein talked about it. And then I, in a totally different conversation, said something complimentary about him on a totally different subject. And people were saying, Tim, you might have gone a little off the deep and you're like quoting someone who is like a lab leak person. So I was getting my reputation dinged for complimenting on a different topic. Someone whose reputation was totally solid because they have, you know, they questioned an orthodoxy, right? So you see, so what does that make me want to do? Distance myself from Brett Weinstein. That's the at least they see incentive that's a, and what does that make other people want to do? Don't become the next Brett Weinstein. Don't say it out loud because you don't want to become someone that no one wants to compliment anymore, right? You can see the social pressure. And that's, and of course, when there is a conspiracy, that social pressure is its best friend. Because then they see the people from outside are seeing that social pressure enact like a Tim urban becoming more and more and more extreme to the other side. And so they're going to take the more and more and more extreme to the, I mean, this, what do you see that the pandemic did, like COVID did to our civilization in that regard in the forces? Why was it so divisive? Do you understand that? Yeah. So COVID, you know, I thought might be, you know, we always know the ultimate example of the topic that will unite us all as the alien attack. Yeah. Although honestly, I don't even have that much faith then. I think there'd be like some people are super like, you know, pro alien and some people aren't the alien. But anyway, I was like, you started to interrupt because I was talking a few astronomers and they, they're the first folks that maybe kind of said in that if we did discover life on Mars, for example, that there's going to be potentially a division over that too, where half the people will not believe that's real. Well, because we live in a current society where the political divide has subsumed everything. And that's not always like that. It goes into stages like that. We're in a really bad one where it's, I actually, in the book, I call it like a vortex, like a, like a, like a, almost like a whirlpool that pulls everything into it. It pulls, it pulls. And so, normally you'd as they, okay, you know, immigration, naturally going to be contentious. That's always political, right? Yeah. But like COVID seemed like, oh, that's one of those that will unite us all. Let's fight this not human virus thing. Like obvious is no, no one's sensitive. No one's like, getting hurt. Well, we insult the virus. Like, let's all be, we have this threat. It's common threat. It's a threat to everyone of every nationality in every country, every ethnicity, and and what it didn't do that at all. The whirlpool was too powerful. So it pulled COVID in and suddenly masks. If you're on the left, you like them. If you're on the right, you hate them. And suddenly lockdowns. If you're on the left, you like them and on the right, you hate them. And vaccines, this is people forget this when they, when they, Trump first started talking about the vaccine, Biden, Harris, Cuomo, they're all saying, I'm not taking that vaccine. Not from this CDC. Because those two rushed or something like that. Because I'm not trusting anything that Trump says. Trump wants me to take it. I'm not taking it. I'm not taking it from this CDC. So, this was, if Trump, this Trump was almost out of office. But at the time, if Trump had been, it would have been, I'm pretty sure it would have stayed right, likes vaccines. The left, doesn't like vaccines. Instead, the president switched. And all those people are suddenly saying they were actually specifically saying that if you, you know, that, that, that, that, like, if you're saying the CDC is not trustworthy, that's misinformation, which is exactly what they were saying about the other CDC. And they were saying it because they genuinely didn't trust Trump, which is fair. But now, when other people don't trust the Biden CDC, it suddenly, it's this kind of misinformation that needs to be censored. So it was a sad moment because it was a couple of months at the very, even a week or so at the, I mean, a month or so at the very beginning when it felt like a lot of our other squabbles were kind of like, I feel like they're kind of irrelevant right now. And then very quickly the world pool sucked it in. And, and, and in a way where I think it damaged the reputation of these, a lot of the, the trust and a lot of these institutions for long run. But there's also an individual psychological impact. It's like a vicious negative feedback cycle where they were deeply affected on an emotional level. And people just were not their best selves. That's definitely true. Yeah. I mean, talk about the primitive mind. I mean, one thing that we've been dealing with for our whole human history is pathogens. And it's emotional, right? It, it brings out, you know, there's really interesting studies where like if, what they, they, they, study the, the, the, the phenomenon of a disgust, which is one of these like, hat, you know, smiling is universal. You don't have to ever translate a smile, right? Certain, you know, you know, throw your hands up when you're, when your sports team wins is universal because it's part of our, we're coding. And so is disgust to kind of make this like, you know, face where you wrinkle up your nose and you kind of put out your tongue and maybe even gag. That's to expel, expel whatever's because it's, it's the reaction when something is potentially a pathogen that might harm us, right? Feces vomit, whatever. But they did this interesting study where people who in two, two groups, the control group, you know, was shown images of, and I might be getting two studies mixed up, but they were showing, they were showing images of like car crashes and like disturbing, but not disgusting. And the other one was shown like, you know, like, you know, rotting things and just, just things that were disgusting. And then they were asked about immigration. These were Canadians. And the group that was had the disgust feeling going pulsing through their body was way more likely to prefer like immigrants from white countries. And the group that was head to Shaman Shaman car accidents, they were, they still prefer the groups from white countries, but much less so. And so what does that mean? It's because the disgust impulse makes us scared of, you know, sexual practices that are foreign of ethnicities that are not, look, they don't look like us of, of, of, it's still xenophobia. So it's ugly. It's really ugly stuff. This is of course also how, you know, the Nazi propaganda with cockroaches and it was, it was, Rwandan was cockroaches, you know, the Nazis was rats and, you know, it's, it's specifically, it's a dehumanizing emotion. So, anyway, we were, we were, we were, we were talking about COVID, but I think it does, it taps deep into like the human psyche and it, and it's, I don't think it brings out our, I think, like you said, I think it brings out an ugly side in us. You describe an idea lab as being opposite of echo chambers. So we know what echo chambers are. And you said, like, there's basically no good term for the opposite of an echo chamber. So what's an idea lab? Yeah, well, first of all, both of these, we think of an echo chamber as like a group maybe or even a place, but it's, it's a culture. It's an intellectual culture. And this goes along with the high-ranked, so high-ranking and low-ranked thinking is individual, so I was talking about what's going on in your head, but this is very connected to the social scene around us. And so groups will do high-rank and low-ranked thinking together. Basically, it's, so an echo chamber to me is a collaborative, low-ranked thinking. It is, it's a culture where the cool, it's based around a sacred set of ideas. And it's the coolest thing you can do in an echo chamber culture is talk about how great the sacred ideas are and how bad and evil and stupid and wrong the people are who have the other views. And it's, it's quite boring, you know, it's a quite boring, you know, it's very hard to learn. And changing your mind is not cool in an echo chamber culture. It makes you seem wishy-washy. It makes you seem like, you know, like you're waffling and you're flip-flopping or whatever. It's showing conviction about the sacred ideas and echo chamber culture is awesome. If you're just like, you know, obviously this makes you seem smart while being, you know, humble makes you seem dumb. So now flip all of those things on their heads. And you have a, you have the opposite, which is ideal ab culture, which is collaborative, high-ranked thinking. It's collaborative truth-finding. But it's also just, it's just a totally different vibe. It's, it's a place where arguing is a fun thing. It's not, no one's getting offended. And, and criticizing like the thing everyone believes is actually it makes you seem like interesting like, oh, really? Why do you think we're all wrong? And expressing too much conviction makes people lose trust in you. It doesn't make you seem smart, it makes you seem stupid. If you don't really know what you're talking about, but you're acting like you do. I really like this diagram of where on the X-axis agreement, the Y-axis is decency. That's in an ideal lab. In an echo chamber, there's only one axis. It's asshole to non-asshole. Right. I just said really important things to understand about the difference between, you call it decency here, about assholishness and disagreement. So my college friends, we love to argue, right? And, and no one thought anyone was an asshole for, it was just for sports. Sometimes we'd realize we're not even disagreeing on something. And, that would be disappointing. I'm really, oh, I think we agree. And it was kind of like sad. It was like, oh, well, there goes the fun. And one of the members of this group has this, she brought her new boyfriend to one of our like hangouts. And there was like a heated, heated debate, you know, just just just one of our typical things. And afterwards, you know, the next day he said like, is everything okay? And she was like, what do you mean? And he said like after, you know, the fight. And she was like, what fight? And he was like, you know, the fight last night. And she was like, and she had to, and then she was like, you mean like the arguing? And he was like, yeah. And she, and so that's someone who is not used to IDL app culture coming into it. And seeing it is like, that was like, this is like, are they still friends? Right. And IDL app is nice for the people in them, because it, it, it, individuals thrive. You don't want to just conform. That does, it makes you seem boring and an idea. But you want to be yourself. You want to challenge things. You want to have a unique brain. So that's great. And, and, and you also have people criticizing your ideas, which makes you smarter. It doesn't always feel good, but you, you become more correct and smarter. And echo chamber is the opposite. Where it's not good for the people. And it does, and you're learning skills, atrophy. And, and I think it's boring. But the thing is they also have emergent properties. So the emergent property of an ID lab is like super intelligence. Just you and me alone, just the two of us, if we're working together on something, but we're being really grown up about it. We're, we're disagreeing. We're not, you know, no one's sensitive about anything. We're going to each find flaws in the other ones arguments that that you wouldn't have found on your own. And we're going to have a piff and double the epiphanies, right? So it's almost like the two of us together is like as smart as 1.5 is like 50% smarter than either of us alone, right? So you have this 1.5 intelligent kind of joint being that we've made. Now, bringing a third person, an informed person in right, you see, it starts to scale up. This is why science institutions can discover relativity and quantum mechanics and these things that no individual human, you know, was going to come up with without a ton of collaboration because it's this giant ID lab. So it has an emergent property of super intelligence. And echo chamber is the opposite, where it has the emergent property of stupidity. I mean, it has the emergent property of a bunch of people all, you know, you know, paying field, you know, field tea to this set of sacred ideas. And, and so you lose this magical thing about language and humans, which is collaborative intelligence, you lose it. It disappears. But there is that access of decency, which is really interesting, because you kind of pay in this picture of you and your friends arguing really harshly. But underlying that is a basic camaraderie respect. There's, there's all kinds of mechanisms we humans have constructed to communicate like mutual respect, or maybe communicate the year here for the ID lab version of this. Totally. You don't take it, you don't get personal, right? You're not getting personal. You're not, you're not taking things personally. People are respected in an ID lab and ideas are disrespected. And there's a way, ways to signal that. So like for with friends, you've already done the signaling, you've already established a relationship. The interesting thing is online, I think you have to do some of that work. To me, the sort of steel man in the other side, or no, having empathy and hearing out, being able to basically repeat the argument the other person is making before you, and showing like respect to that argument, I could see how you could think that before you make a counter argument. There's just a bunch of ways to communicate that you're here, not to do kind of, what is it? Low-wrong shit-talk, mockery, derision, but I actually hear ultimately to discover the truth in the space of ideas and the tension of those ideas. And I think it's, I think that's the skill that we're all learning as a civilization of how to do that kind of communication effectively. Because I think disagreement, as I'm learning on the internet, is actually a really tricky skill, like high effort, high decency disagreement. I got to listen to this really good debate podcast, Intelligent Squared. And they can go pretty hard in the paint. It's not a good idea, Lab. Exactly, but how do we map that to the social media? When people will say, we'll say, well, like, Lex or anybody, you hate disagreement. You want a sense of disagreement? No. I love Intelligent Squared type of disagreement. That's fun. You want to reduce asshole. And for me personally, I don't want to reduce asshole. I kind of like asshole, or it's like fun in many ways. But the problem is when the asshole shows up to the party, they make it less fun for the party that's there for the idea, Lab. And the other people, especially the quiet voices at the back of the room, they leave. And so all your left is with assholes. Well, Twitter, political Twitter to me is one of those parties. It's a big party, where a few assholes have really sent a lot of the quiet thinkers away. Yeah. And so if you think about this graph again, what, what, what, what, what, what, some, some place like Twitter, a great way to get followers is to be an asshole with a certain, you know, pumping a certain ideology. You'll get a huge amount of followers. And for those followers and the followers you're going to get the people who would like, you know, not the people who like you are probably going to be people who are really thinking with their primitive mind because they're seeing your, you're being an asshole, but because you agree with them, they love you. And they think they don't see any problem with how you're being. Yeah, they don't see the asshole. This is the fascinating thing because look, look at the thing on the right agreement and decency are the same. So if you're in that mindset, bigger the asshole, the better, if you're agreeing with me, you're my man. I love what you're saying. Yes, show them, right? And the algorithm helps those people does, those people do great on the algorithm. This is a fascinating dynamic that happens because I have, I've currently hired somebody that looks at my social media and they block people because they ask those will roll in, they're not actually there to have an interesting disagreement, which I love. They're there to do kind of mockery. And then when they get blocked, they then celebrate that to their echo chamber, like, look at this, I got them or whatever they say. Or they'll say some annoying thing like, oh, so it's, so he talks about he likes, you know, if I, if I done this, they'll say he, oh, he says he likes ID labs, but he actually wants to create an echo chamber. And I'm like, nope, you're an asshole. I'm not, I just look at the other 50 people and this thread that disagreed with me respectfully. They're not blocked. Yep. Exactly. You know, and so they see you do some kind of hypocrisy because again, they only see the thing on the right. And they're not understanding that there's two axes or I see it as two axes. And so you seem petty in that moment, but it's like, no, no, no, no, you're, this is very specific what I'm doing. You're actually killing the conversation. I, I, in generally, I give all those folks a pass and just send them love telepathically, but yes, like it's getting rid of assholes in the conversation is the way you allow for the disagreement. You do a lot of like when I think when like primitive mindedness comes at you, at least on Twitter, I don't know what you're feeling internally in that moment, but you do a lot of like, I'm going to meet that with my higher mind. And you come out and you'll be like, you'll be like, thanks for all the criticism. I love you. And that's that, that, that's actually a, a amazing response because it just, it, what it does is it, it, it, it, it, it unriles up that person's primitive mind and actually wakes up their higher mind who says, Oh, okay, you know, this guy's not so bad. And suddenly like, a, a, a, a, civility comes back. So it's a very powerful, hopefully long term. But the thing is they do seem to drive away high quality disagreement. Because like, because it takes so much effort to disagree in a high quality way. I've noticed this in my blog. Like my, one of the things I pride myself on is like my comment section is awesome. Like there's, there's, there's, there's, everyone's being respectful. No one's afraid to disagree with me and tell them and say, say, you know, Tara, my post apart, but in a totally respectful way, where the underlying thing is like, I'm here because I like this guy in his writing. And people disagree with each other and they get in these long and it's interesting. And I read it and I'm learning. And then I, you know, a couple posts, especially the ones I've gotten written about politics. It's not like it seems like any other comment section. People are being nasty to me. They're being nasty to each other. And then I looked down one of them and I realized like almost all of this is the work of like three people. Yeah. That's who you need to block. Those people need to be blocked. You're not being thin skinned. You're not being petty doing it. You're actually protecting an idea lab because what would, what would really aggressive people like that do is they'll turn it into their own echo chamber because now everyone is scared to kind of disagree with them. It's unpleasant. And so people who will chime in or the people who agree with them and suddenly, like they've taken over the space. And I kind of believe that those people on a different day could actually do high effort disagreement. It's just that they're in a certain kind of mood. And a lot of us just like you said with the primitive mind could get into that mood. And it's, I believe it's actually the job of the technology, the platform to incentivize those folks to be like, are you sure this is the best you can do? Like if you really want to talk shit about this idea, like do better. Like yeah. And then we need to create incentives where you get likes for high effort disagreement because currently you get likes for like something that's slightly funny and is a little bit like mockery. Like yeah, basically signals to some kind of echo chamber that this person is a horrible person is a hypocrite as evil, whatever. That feels like it's solvable with technology because I think in our private lives, none of us want that. I wonder if it's making me think that I want to like because a much easier way for me to do it just for my my world would be to say something like, you know, here's this axis, this high, this is this is part of what I, part of what I like about the latter is it is it's a language that we can use. It's like specifically what we're talking about is high wrong disagreement good low wrong disagreement bad, right? And so so it gives us like a language for that. And so what I would say is I would, you know, my, you know, I would have my, you know, readers, you know, understand this axis. And then I would specifically say something like, please do the do the do we put why a favor and up vote regardless of what they're saying horizontally, right? Regardless of what their actual view is up vote high wrongness, they can be tearing me apart, they can be saying great, they can be praising me whatever up vote high wrongness and down vote low wrongness. And if enough people are doing that, suddenly there's all this incentive to try to say, no, I need to calm my emotion down here and not be at personal because I'm going to get voted into oblivion by these people. I think a lot of people would be very good at that. They, and they not are only what they be good at that they would want that that task of saying, I know I completely disagree with this person, but this was a high effort, high wrong disagreement. And gets everyone thinking about that other axis too, you're not just looking at where do you stand horizontally, you're saying, well, how did you get there and how are you, you know, are you treating ideas like machines or you're treating them like little, you know, babies? And there should be some kind of labeling on personal attacks versus idea, disagreement. Sometimes people like throwing both a little bit. Right. That's like, all right, no, there should be a dissent of a personal attacks versus idea attacks. Well, you can also, what one metric is, a respectful disagreement. If I see, just to say someone else's Twitter and I see, you know, you put out a thought and I see someone say, you know, someone say, you know, I don't see it that way. Here's, here's where I think you went wrong and they're just explaining. I'm thinking that if Lex read is that he's going to be interested. He's going to, he's going to want to post more stuff, right? Because he's going to like that. If I see someone being like, you know, wow, this really shows the kind of person that you become or shows up and I'm thinking, that person is making Lex want to be on Twitter less. It's making him, it's, and so what's that doing? What that person is actually doing is they're putting, is there actually shut their chilling discussion because they're making it unpleasant to, they're making it scary to say what you think. And the first person isn't at all. The first person is making you want to say more stuff. So, and those are both disagree, those are people who are both disagree with you. Exactly. Exactly. I want to, great disagreements with friends in meat space is like, you're, they disagree with you. They could be even yelling at you. Honestly, they could even have some shit talk where it's like personal attacks. It is still feels good. Because you know them well and you know that that shit talk, because yeah, I'm shit friends shit talk all the time playing us, playing a sport or a game. And again, it's, it's because they know each other well enough to know that this is fun. We're having fun. And obviously I love you. Like exactly. Exactly. You know, and that's, that's important online. It's a lot harder. Yeah, the, that, obviously I love you that underlies a lot of human interaction. Right. Seems to be easily lost on that. I've seen some people on Twitter and elsewhere just behave their worst. Yeah. And it's like, I know that's not who you are. Totally. Like why are you? I actually, you know, I know this human. I know someone personally who is one of the best people. Yeah. I'm just, I love this guy. Like one of the best like fun, funny, like nicest dudes. And he, if you would, if you would, look to this Twitter only, you would think he's a culture warrior and awful culture warrior. And, you know, you know, biased and just stoking anger. And, and it comes out of a good place. And I'm not going to give any other info about, you know, specific, but like, I think you're describing a lot of people. It comes out of a good place because he really cares about what he, you know, it comes out, but it's just I can't square the two. It's so, and that's it. You have to, once you know someone like that, you can realize, okay, apply that to everyone because a lot of these people are lovely people. And it just bring even just, you know, back in the before social media, you ever had a friend who like was just like, they had this like dickishness on text or email that they didn't have in person. And you're like, wow, like email you is like kind of a dick. And it's like, it just certain people have a different persona behind the screen. It has for me personally, it's become a bit of a meme that, uh, uh, Lex blocks with love. But there is a degree to that where this is, I don't see people on social media as representing who they really are. I really do have love for them. I really do think positive thoughts of them throughout the entirety of the experience. I see this as some weird side effect of online communication. And so it's like to me blocking is not some kind of a derisive act towards that individual. It's just like saying a lot of times what's happened is they have slipped into a very common delusion that dehumanizes others. So that doesn't mean they're a bad person. We all can do it. But they're dehumanizing you or whoever they're, they're being nasty too. Because they, in a way, they would never do in person because in a person, they're reminded that's a person. Mm-hmm. Remember I said the dumb part of my brain when I'm doing VR, like you won't step off the cliff, but the smart part of my brain knows I'm just on the rug. That dumb part of our brain is really dumb in a lot of ways. Um, it's the part of your brain where you can set the clock five minutes fast to help you not be late. The smart part of your brain knows that you did that, but the dumb part will fall for it, right? That same dumb part of your brain can forget that the person behind that screen that behind that handle is a human that has feelings. And, and, and that doesn't mean they're a bad person for forgetting that because it's, it's, it's possible. Well, this really interesting idea and I wonder if it's true that you write is that both primitive mind and this and high-mindedness tend to be contagious. I hope you're right that it's possible to make both contagious because our, our sort of popular intuition is only one of them, the primitive mind and this is contagious as, as exhibited by social media. To compliment you again, don't you think that your, your Twitter to me is like, I was just looking down and I mean, it is a, it's just high-mindedness. It's just high-mindedness, down, down, down, down. It's, it's gratitude, it's optimism, it's love, it's forgiveness, it's all these things that are the opposite of grievance and victimhood and resentment and pessimism, right? And there's, I think, a reason that a lot of people follow you because it is contagious. It makes, other people feel those feelings. I don't know. There's been, I've been recently over the past few months attacked quite a lot in his fascinating watch because there's, there's over things that I think I probably have done stupid things but I'm being attacked for things that are totally not worthy of attack. I got attacked for a book list. I saw that, it's by the way, I thought it was great. But like you can always kind of find ways to, you know, I guess the assumption is this person surely is a fraud or some other explanation, he sure has dead bodies in the basement, he's hiding or something like this and then I'm going to construct a narrative around that and mock and attack that. I don't know how that works but there is, there does, and I think you write this in the book, there seems to be a gravity pulling people towards the primitive mind of psych. It comes to anything political, right? Right. Religious certain things are bottom heavy, you know, for our psyche. They, they have a magnet that pulls our psychies downwards on the ladder. And why? Why does politics pull our psychies down on the ladder? Because it, for the tens of thousand years that we were evolving during human history, it was life or death. Politics was life or death. And so there's actually an amazing study where it's like they challenged like 20 different beliefs of a person. And different parts of the person's brain, and they had an MRI going, different parts of the person's brain lit up when non-political beliefs were challenged versus political beliefs were challenged. When political beliefs were challenged, when non-political beliefs were challenged, the, like the rational, like the prefrontal cortex type areas were lit up, when the political beliefs were challenged, and then I'm getting over my head here, but it's like the parts of your brain, the default mode network, the parts of your brain associated with like introspection and like your own identity, was lit up. And they were much more likely to change their mind on all the beliefs, the non-political beliefs. When that default mode network part of your brain lit up, you were, you were going to, if anything, get more firm in those beliefs when you, when you had them challenged. So politics is one of those topics that just literally, literally lights up different part of our brain. It's out in, again, I think we come back to primitive mind, higher mind here. It's like it, it gets our higher, this is one of the things our primitive mind comes programmed to care a ton about. And so there is going to be very hard for us to stay rational and calm and looking for truth because we have all this gravity. Well, it's weird because politics, like what is politics? Like talk about it, there's a bunch of different issues and each individual issue, if we really talk about it. Yeah, it tax policy, like why are we being emotional about this? I don't think we're actually that, I mean, we're, yeah, we're emotional about something else. Yeah, I think what we're emotional about is this, my side, the side I've identified with is in power and making the decisions, and your side is out of power. And if your side's in power, that's really scary for me because that goes back to the idea of who's pulling the strings in this tribe, right? Who's the chief? Is it your family's patriarch or is it mine? You might not have food if we don't win this, kind of whatever, chief election. So I think that it's not about the tax policy or anything like that. And then it gets tied to this broader, I think a lot of our tribalism has really coalesced around this. We don't have that much religious tribalism in the US, right? Not the Protestants and the Catholics hate each other. We don't have that really. And honestly, you say people like to say we have racial tribalism and everything, but white can, you know, a white, even a kind of a racist white conservative guy, I think takes the black conservative over the woke white person any day of the week right now. So that's the strongest. It tells me that social divisions, way stronger tribalism right now. I think that that white racist guy, you know, loves the black conservative guy compared to the white woke guy, right? There's no, so I think not again, not that racial tribalism isn't the thing. Of course, it's always the thing, but like political tribalism is the number one right now. So race is almost a topic for the political division versus the actual element of the tribe. It's a political football. It's yeah. So there's a, it's this is dark because so this is a book about human civilization. This is a book about human nature, but it's also a book of politics about politics. It is just the way you listed out in the book. It's kind of dark. We just fall into these left and right checklists. So if you're on the left, it's maintained. Roe Wade, universal healthcare good mainstream media fine guns kill people. US as a racist country protect immigrants tax class bad climate change awful raise minimal wage. And on the right is the flip of that reverse role you weighed, you know, a lot of care bad mainstream media bad people kill people not guns kill people. US was a racist country protect borders tax cuts good climate change overblown don't raise minimal wage. I mean, it has you almost don't have to think about any of this. Well, literally. So when you say it's a book about politics, it's interesting because it's a book about the vertical axis, right? It's specifically not a book about the horizontal axis. And that I'm not talking, I don't actually talk about any of these issues. I don't put out an opinion on them. Those are all horizontal, right? But when you so my rather than argue, you know, having, you know, another book about those issues about right versus left. I wanted to do a book about this other axis. And so on this axis, the reason I had this checklist is that this is a low part of the low wrong politics world, right? Low wrong politics is a checklist. And a checklist evolves, right? Like Russia suddenly is like popular with the right is opposed to, you know, be it used to be now in the 60s that left was the one defending Stalin. Like, so they'll switch. It doesn't even matter. The substance doesn't matter. It's that this is the approved checklist of the capital P party. And this is what everyone believes. That's a low wrong thing. The high rungs. This is not what it's like. High-run politics. You tell me you're one view on this. I have no idea what you think about anything else, right? And you're going to say, I don't know about a lot of stuff because inherently you're not going to have that strong in opinion because you don't have that much in for these are complex things. So there's a lot of I don't know and people are all over the place. It's the when it's you know you're and you know you're talking to someone who has been subsumed with low wrong politics when if they tell you their opinion on any one of these issues, you could just you know you could just rattle off their opinion on every single other one. And if and if in three years it becomes fashionable to to have this new view, they're going to have that's you're not thinking that's echo that's echo chamber culture. And I've been using kind of a shorthand of centrist to describe this kind of a high wrong thinking but people tend to I mean it's it seems to be difficult to be a centrist or whatever a high wrong thinker it's like people want to label you as a person who's too cowardly to take stance. Yeah. Somehow as opposed to asking saying I don't know is a first state. Well the problem with centrist is that would mean that in each of these tax cuts bag, tax cuts good. It means that you are saying I am in that I think we should have some tax cuts but not that many. You might not think that. You might actually come do some research and say actually I think tax cuts are really important. That doesn't mean oh I'm not a centrist anymore. I guess I'm a far you know no no no that's why we need the second axis. So what you're trying to be when you say centrist is high wrong. Which means you might be all over the place horizontally. You might agree with the far left on this thing, the far right on this thing. You might agree with the centrist on this thing. But but calling yourself a centrist actually like is putting yourself in a prison on the horizontal axis. Saying that whatever on the different topics I'm right in between the two policy wise. That's not where you are. So yeah that's what we're badly missing this other axis. Yeah I mean I still do think it's like for me I am a centrist when you projected down to the horizontal but the point is you're missing so much data by not considering the vertical. Because like on average maybe it falls somewhere in the middle. But in reality there's just a lot of nuance issue to issue that involves just thinking and uncertainty and changing and the given the context of the current geopolitics and economics and just always considering always questioning always evolving your views all of that. Not just not just about like oh I think we should be in the center on this but another way to be in the center is if there's some phenomenon happening you know there's always a terrorist attack. You know and one side wants to say this has nothing to do with Islam and the other one the other side wants to say this is radical Islam. Right what's in between those is saying this is complicated and nuanced and we have to learn more and they probably has something to do with Islam and something to do with the economic circumstances and something to do with you know geopolitics. So in case like that you actually do get really a nuanced when you go to the extremes and all of the nuance which is where all the truth usually is is going to be in the middle. So yeah but there's a truth to the fact that if you take that nuance on those issues like when you crane COVID you're going to be attacked by both sides. Yes people who have who are really strongly on one side or the other hate centrist people. I've gotten this myself and you know this the slur that I've had thrown at me is I'm an enlightened centrist in a very mocking way. So what do they actually say what does hide and light and centrist mean it means someone who is you know Stephen Pinker or Jonathan Hyde gets accused of is you know that they're highfalutin you know intellectual world and they don't actually have any they don't actually take a side they don't actually get their hands dirty and they can be superior to both sides without actually taking a stand right so I see the argument and I disagree with it because I firmly believe that the hardcore tribes they think they're taking a stand and they're out in the streets and they're pushing for something I think what they're doing is they're just driving the whole country downwards and I think they're they're hurting all the causes they care about and so it's not that it's not that you know it's not that we need everyone to be sitting there you know refusing to take a side it's that you can be far left and far right but be upper left and upper right. If we talk about the you use the word liberal a lot in the book to mean something that we don't in modern political discourse mean so it's this higher philosophical view and then you use the words progressive to mean the left and conservative to mean the right can you describe the concept of liberal games and our games. So the power games is is what I call the like basically just the laws of nature as the when laws of nature are the laws of the land and that's the power game. So animals watch any David Attenborough special and when the little lizard is running away from the you know the bigger animal or whatever and I use an example of a bunny in a bear. I don't even know if bears eat bunnies they probably don't but pretend bears eat bunnies right. So it's like in the power games the bear is chasing the bunny. There's no fairness there's no okay well what's right what you know what what what what's legal no no no if the bear is fast enough it can eat the bunny. If the bunny is can get away it can say living in so that's it that's the only rule. Now humans have spent a lot of time in essentially that environment so when you have a totalitarian dictatorship it's and so the what's the rule of the power games it's everyone can do whatever they want if they have the power to do so it's just a game of power so the the bunny gets away the bunny actually has more power than the bear in that situation right and likewise the totalitarian dictatorship there's no rules that dictator can do whatever they want they can they can they can torture they can you know flatten a rebellion with a lot of murder because they have the power to do so what are you gonna do right and that's that's kind of the state of nature that's our natural way you know that what you know when you look at moth watch a mafia movie you know there's we do a lot of we have it we have it in us we all have we all can snap into power games mode when it becomes all about you know just just actual raw power now the liberal games is is you know something that civilizations for thousands of years have been working on it's not invented by America or modern times but America's kind of was like the latest crack at it yet which is this idea instead of everyone can do what they want if they have the power to do so it's everyone can do what they want as long as it doesn't harm anyone else now that's really complicated yeah he designed harm and and the idea is that everyone has their a list of rights which are protected by the government and then they have they're an inalienable rights and they're they're protected you know those are protected again by you know from from invasion by other people and so you have this kind of fragile balance and so the idea with the liberal games is you that there are laws but it's not totalitarian they will build very clear strict laws kind of around the edges of what you can and can't do and then everything else freedom so unlike a totalitarian dictatorship actually it's it's very loose you can there's a lot of things can happen and it's kind of up to the people but there are still laws that protect the very basic and alienable rights and stuff like that so it's this much looser thing now the vulnerability there is that it so so so the the benefits of it are obvious right freedom is great it seems like it's the most fair they didn't you know that that equality of opportunity seemed like the most fair thing and and you know equality before the law you know do process and all of this stuff so it seems fair to the founders of the US and other enlightenment thinkers and it also is a great way to manifest productivity right you know you have you have Adam Smith saying it's not from the benevolence of the butcher or the baker that we get our dinner but from the from the wrong self interest so you have you can harness kind of selfishness for for progress but it has a vulnerability which is that because the laws it's like the totalitarian laws they don't have an excessive laws for no reason they want to control everything and the US you know in the US we say we're they're not going to do that and so the the second it's almost two puzzle pieces you have the laws and then you've got a liberal culture liberal laws have to be married to liberal culture kind of a defense of liberal spirit in order to truly have the liberal games going on and so that's vulnerable because free speech you can have the first amendment that's the the laws part but if if you're in a culture where anyone who you know speaks out against orthodoxy is going to be shunned from the community well you're lacking the second piece of the puzzle there you're lacking liberal culture and so therefore you you might as well be in it you might as well not even have the first amendment and there's a lot of examples like that where the culture has to do its part for the true liberal games to be enjoyed so it's just much more complicated much more nuanced than the power games it's kind of it's kind of a set of basic laws that then are coupled with a basic spirit to create this very awesome and human environment that's also very vulnerable so what do you mean the culture has to play along so for something like a freedom of speech to work there has to be a basic what decency that if all people are perfectly good then perfect freedom without any restrictions is great it's where the human nature starts getting a little iffy we start being cruel to each other we start being greedy and desiring of harm and also the narcissistic and sociopath and psychopath and society all of that that's when you start to have to inject some limitations on that freedom yeah I mean if if um so that with the government basically says is we're going to let everyone be mostly free but no one no one is going to be free to physically harm other people or to steal their property right um and so we're we're all we're all agreeing to sacrifice that you know that that 20% of our freedom and then in in return all of us in theory can be 80% free and that's kind of the the bargain um but now that's a lot of freedom to leave people with and a lot of people choose it's like you're so free in the US you're actually free to be unfree if you choose that's kind of what an echo chamber is to me it's you know um you can you can choose to kind of be friends with people who uh essentially make it make it so uncomfortable to speak your mind that it's no actual effective difference for you then if you live in a country if if you can't you know criticize Christianity in a certain community that you have a first amendment so you're not going to get arrested for by the government for criticizing Christianity but if you but if if you have this if the social penalties are so extreme mm-hmm that it you would just never worth it you might as well be in a country that it in in prisons people for criticizing Christianity and so that same thing goes for for walkeness right this is what people get you know uh you know cancel culture and stuff so when the reason these things are bad is because they're actually they're depriving americans of the beauty of the freedom of the liberal games by you know imposing a social culture that is very power games ask it's basically a power games culture comes in and you might as well be in the power games now and so liberal if you live in a liberal democracy it's it's you there will be always be challenges to a liberal culture now lowercase l liberal um there always be challenges to a liberal culture from people who are much more interested in playing the power games and would and and and there has to be kind of an immune system that stands up to that culture and says that's not how we do things here in america actually we don't it excommunicate people for not having the right religious beliefs or not rent you know we don't disinvite a speaker from campus for having the wrong political beliefs and if it doesn't stand up for itself it's it's it's like the immune system of the country failing and power games rushes in so before chapter four in your book uh and the chapters that will surely result in you being burned at the stake you right quote we'll start our pitch fork tour in this chapter but taking a brief trip through the history of the republican party then in the following chapters we'll take a Tim's career tanking deep dive into america's social justice movement as you started to talk about okay so let's go uh what's the history of the republican party i'm looking at this through my vertical ladder i'm saying what is this this familiar story of the republicans from the sixties to today what does it look like through the vertical lens right does it look different and and and is there is is there an interesting story here that's been kind of hidden because we're always looking at the horizontal now the horizontal story you'll hear people talk about it and it's they'll say something like their the republicans have moved farther and farther to the right and um and to me that that's not really true like it was trump more right wing than Reagan i don't think so i think he's left actual policy yeah yeah so it's so we're using this again it's just like you're calling yourself centrist when it's not exactly what you mean even though it it also is yeah so i again this i was like okay look this vertical lens helps with other things let's let's apply it to the republicans and here here's what i saw is i looked at the sixties and i saw an interesting story which i don't think that you know not everyone's familiar with like what happened in the early sixties but the in 1960 the republican party was very it was a plurality you had progressives like genuine no rock afella or you know pretty progressive people um all the way to you know then you had them you know moderates like Eisenhower and Dewey and then you go all the way to the you know farther right you had goldwater and you know what you might call i i call them the fundamentalists um and so it's this interesting plurality right something we don't have today and what happened was the the goldwater contingent which was the underdog they were small right the Eisenhower was the president uh or had just been the president and was it seemed like the moderates were you know that was the that's the he said you have to be close to the center of the chessboard that's where that's that's how you maintain power these people were very far from the center of the chessboard but they ended up basically have like a hostile takeover they conquered their own party and they did it by breaking all of the kind of unwritten rules and norms so they did things like they first started with like the college republicans which was like a this feeder group that turned in you know a lot of the politicians started there and they they they went to the election and they wouldn't let the the the current president the incumbent speak and they were throwing chairs and they were fist fights and eventually people gave up and they just sat there and they sat in the chair talking for you know that they're got they're candidate until everyone eventually left and then they declared victory so basically they they they they they came in there was there was a there was a certain set of rules agreed upon rules and they came in playing the power games saying well actually if we do this you won't have the power you know we have the power to take it if we just break all the rules right and so they did and they won and that became a hugely influential thing which then they then they conquered California through again these these people were taken aback these you know these these these proper republican candidates were appalled by the kind of like you know the insults that were being hurled with them and the intimidation in the building and eventually they ended up and the national convention which was called like the right wing woodstock it was like you know they're a public national convention in 64 was just they again there was jeering and they wouldn't let their moderates so their their progressives even speak and there was racism you know you know Jackie Robinson was there and he was a proud republican and he said that like he feels like he was a Jew and Hitler's Germany with the way the blacks were being treated there and it was nasty and but what do they do they they had they had fiery you know plurality enough to win and they won they ended up getting crushed in the general election and they kind of faded away but to me I was like what's that was an interesting story I see it as I have this character in the book called the golem which is a big kind of a big dumb powerful monster that's the you know the emergent property of like a political echo chambers like this big giant it's stupid but it's powerful and scary and to me I was like a golem rose up conquered the party for a second knocked it on his ass and then and then faded away and to me when I looked at the Trump revolution in a lot and not just Trump the last 20 years I see that same lower right that lower right monster kind of making another charge for it but this time succeeding and really taking over the party for a long period of time I see the same story which is the power games are being played in a situation when it had always been the government relies on all these unwritten rules and norms to function but for example you have in 2016 Merrick Garland gets gets nominated by Obama and the unwritten norms says that when the president nominates a justice then you pass them through unless there's some egregious thing that's what has happened but they said actually this is the last year of his presidency and the people should choose I don't think we should set a new precedent where the president can't nominate people nominate a Supreme Court justice in the last year so they they passed the throw and it ends up being corsage and so they lose that seat now three years later is Trump's last year and it's another election year and Ginsburg dies and what did they say they say oh let's keep our precedent they said no actually we changed our mind we're gonna nominate Amy Farrett so to me that is classic power games right that there there's there's no actual rule in what you're doing is they had they did technically have the power to block the nomination then and then they technically had the power to put someone in they and they pretending there's some principle to it but they're just extra they're going for the short-term edge at the expense of what is like the workings of the system in the long run and then what do the democrats have to do in that situation because both parties have been doing this is they either can lose now all the time or they start playing the power games too and now you have a prison prisoner's dilemma where it's like both are end up doing this thing because and they and everyone ends up worse off the debt ceiling all these power plays that are being made with these these holding the country hostage this is power games and to me that's what goldwater was doing in the 60s but it was a healthier time in a way because there was this plurality within the parties reduced some of the national tribalism and that there wasn't as much I'm going to appeal to that but today it's just like do whatever you have to do to beat the enemies and so I'm seeing a rise in power games and I talk about the republicans because they did a lot of these things first they have been a little bit more egregious but both parties have been doing it over the last 20 30 years can you place blame or maybe there's a different term for it at at the subsystems of this so is it the media is it the politicians like in the senate in congress is it trump so the leadership is it or maybe it's us human beings maybe social media versus mainstream media is there a sense of where what is the cause of what is the symptom it's very complex or as reclients a great book viral polarized where he talks about a lot of this and there's there's some of these aren't you know it's really no one's fault first of all it's the environment has changed in a bunch of ways you just mentioned and what happens when you take human nature which is a constant and you put it into an environment behavior comes out the environment is the independent variable when that changes the dependent variable the behavior changes with it right and so the environment has changed in a lot of ways so one major one is it used for a long time actually the the first it was the Republicans and then the democrats just had a strangle hold on senate on congress there was no it was not even competitive the democrats for 40 years had the majority and so therefore it actually isn't a decent environment to compromise it because now we can both you know what you want is congress people thinking about their home district and and you know voting yes on a national policy because we're going to get a good deal on it back at home that's actually healthy as opposed to voting in lockstep together because this is what the red party is doing regardless of what's good for my home district you know an example is Obamacare you know there were certain Republican districts that would have actually officially been benefited by Obamacare but every Republican voted against it so in part of the reason is because there's no longer this obvious majority every few years it switches it's a 50 50 thing and that's you know partially because it's become so we've been so subsoomed with this one national divide of left versus right that that that that that the that the people are not people are whoever you know they're voting for the same party for president not all the way down the ticket now and so you have this just kind of 50 50 color war and that's awful for compromise so there's like 10 of these things you know that have redistricting but also it is social media it is you know I call it hypercharged tribalism we you know in the 60s you had kind of distributed tribalism you had some people that are worked up about the USSR right they're national that's what they care about US versus foreign you have some people that were saying left versus right like they had today and then other people that were saying that they were fighting within the party but today you don't have that it's it's it the the you have ideological realignment so you kind of got rid of a lot of the in party fighting and then there's not hasn't been that big of a foreign threat not nothing like the USSR for a long time so you kind of lost that and what's left is just this left versus right thing and so that's kind of this hypercharged world pool that subsumes everything and and so yeah yeah it's I mean people point to Newt Gingrich you know I'm sure like there's certain characters that enacted policies that stoked this kind of thing but I think this is a much bigger kind of environmental shift well that's going back to our questions about the role of individuals in human history so the interesting one of the many interesting questions here is about Trump is he a symptom or cause because he seems to be from the public narrative such a significant catalyst for some of the things we're seeing let's go back to what we were talking about earlier right like is it is it the person or is the times I think he's a perfect example of it's a both situation I don't think that I don't think if you pluck Trump out of this situation I don't think it Trump was inevitable but I think we were very vulnerable to a demagogue and if you hadn't been Trump would have had no chance and so what and why were we vulnerable to a demagogue is because you have these mommy and I think it's specifically on the right if you actually look at the stats it's pretty bad like the people who because it's not just who voted for Trump a lot of people just vote for the red right what's interesting is who voted for Obama against Romney and then voted for Trump who you know these are not racists right these are not hardcore Republicans they voted for Obama and where did the switch come from places that had economic despair were bridges were we're not working well that's a signifier you know we're we're we're paints chipping in the schools you know these little things like this so I think that you know you had this a lot of these kind of world towns you have true despair and then you also have a and the number one indicator of voting for Trump was distrust in media and the media has become a much less trustworthy you know and so you you you have the all these ingredients that actually make us very vulnerable to a demagogue and then a demagogue is someone who takes advantage right there's someone who comes in and says I can pull the right strings and pull it and and and push all the right emotional buttons right now and get myself power by taking advantage of the circumstances and that is what Trump totally did it makes me wonder how easy it is for somebody who's a charismatic leader to capitalize on cultural resentment when when there's economic hardship to channel that so John Hyde wrote a grant article about like the true we basically we like truth is in an all-time low right now like it's the media is not penalized for lying yeah right MSNBC Fox News these are not penalized for being inaccurate or penalized if they stray from the orthodoxy on social media it's not the truest tweets that go viral right and so Trump understood that better than anyone right he he took advantage of it he he was living in the current world whenever one else was stuck in the past and he saw that and he just lied he everything he said you know it doesn't the truth was not relevant at all right it's just it's just truly it's not relevant to him when what he's talking about he doesn't care and and and he knew that neither do it's a subset of the country I was thinking about this just reading articles by journalists especially you're not a famous journalist in yourself but you're more like in your times journalists so the big famous thing is the institution you're part of that there like you can just lie yeah because you're not going to get punished for you're going to be rewarded for the popularity of an article so if you write 10 articles it's there's a huge incentive to just make stuff up you gotta get clicks to get clicks that's the first and foremost and like culturally people will attack that article to say it's not like one half the country will attack that article saying it's dishonest but they'll kind of forget the you will not have a reputational hit right there won't be a memory like this person made up a lot of stuff in the past and they'll take one article at a time and they'll attach the reputation hits will be to New York Times the institution yeah so for the individual journalist there's a huge incentive to make stuff up totally it's it's it's and it's scary because it's almost you can't survive if you're just an old school honest journalist who really works hard and tries to get it right and and does it with nuance like you well you can be as you can be a big time sub-stacker or big time podcaster a lot of people do have a reputation for accuracy and rigor and they have huge audiences but if you're working in a big company right now it's I mean especially I mean I like I I think that many of the big media brands are very much controlled by the left and but I will say that the ones that are controlled by the right are even more egregious not just in terms of accuracy but also in terms of you know the New York Times for all of its criticisms they have a handful of they every they every they hear and they put out a pretty you know a so an article that strays from the they handle Barry Weiss wrote there for a long time and then you've got they wrote an article criticizing free speech on campus stuff you know recently and they have you know they have a couple very you know left progressive friendly conservatives but they have conservatives that are already in the upends Fox News you know you're not seeing thoughtful or a bright bar you're not seeing thoughtful progressives writing there right there's some degree to which New York Times I think still incentivize and the values the vertical the high effort so the you're allowed to have a conservative opinion if you do a really damn good job yeah like if it's a very thorough in-depth on kind of and if you kind of pander to the progressive sense is in all the right ways you know I was joke that you know a Ted you always have a couple you know token conservatives but they get on stage and they're basically like so totally you're all you know where the the progressives are that's right about all of this but maybe maybe you know libertarianism isn't all about you know it's this so there there isn't element but you know what it's it's something it's better than that than being a total tribal I think you can see you can see the New York Times tug of war the internal tug of war you can see it because then they also have these awful instances you know we're like you know the firing of James Bennett which is a whole other story but like they have you yeah you can see it going both ways but in the 60s what did you have you had ABC NBC NBC CBS you know the 70s you know you had these three news channels and they weren't always right and they definitely sometimes spun a narrative together maybe about the Vietnam or whatever but they if one of them was just lying they'd be embarrassed for they would be penalized they'd be dinged and they'd be known as this is the trash one and that would be terrible for their ratings because they weren't just catering to half the country they're catering they all are catering to the whole country so both on the access of accuracy and on the access of neutrality they had to you know try to stay somewhere in the the the reasonable range and that's just gone one of the things I'm really curious about is I think your book is incredible I'm very curious to see how it's written about by the press because I can see click I could myself write with the help of Chagy Pati of course clickbait articles in either direction yeah it's easy to imagine your whole book is beautifully written for clickbait articles yeah if any journalist out there need help I can help yeah I can write out the most atrocious criticisms yeah I'm ready I'm raised yeah so speaking of which you write about social justice you write about two kinds of social justice liberal social justice and SJF social justice fundamentalism what are those yeah so like the term walkness is so loaded with baggage it's kind of like mocking and derogatory and that's I was trying not to do that in this book if it's the terms loaded with baggage you're already kind of you're you're you're from from the first minute you're already behind so to me it also that when when people say walkness is bad social justice is bad the throwing the baby out with the bath water because the the probably you know the proudest tradition in the US is liberal social justice and when I mean by that again liberal meaning with lowercase L it is it is intertwined with liberalism so Martin Luther King classic example his I have a dream speech he says stuff like this country you know is wrote you know has has made a promise to all of its citizens and it has broken that promise to to its black citizens right in other words liberalism the constitution the core ideals those are great we're not living up to them we're failing on some of them so civil disobedience the goal if it wasn't to hurt liberalism is to specifically break the laws that were already violating it that were the laws that were a violation of liberalism to expose that this is a liberal that the constitution should not have people of different skin color sitting in different parts of the bus and so it was it was kind of a there's really patriotic you know the civil rights movement who was saying this is a beautiful you know we have a we have a liberalism is this beautiful thing and we need to do better at it so I call it liberal social justice and it used the tools of liberalism to try to to try to improve the flaws and that we're going on so free speech you know Mario Savio in the 60s was you know he's a leftist and what what the leftist doing in the 60s on Berkeley campus you know they were saying we need more free speech because that's what social liberal social justice was fighting for that but you can also go back to the 20s women's suffrage I mean so the you know the emancipation the the thing that America obviously has all of it's these these are these are all ugly things that it had to get out of but it got out of them you know one by one and it's still getting out of the net's what's cool about America and liberal social justice basically is the practice of saying where are we not being perfect liberals and now let's fix that so that that's the idea of liberalism that permeates the history in the United States but then there's entropy having it's so many good images in this book but one of them is how I need the interplay of different ideas over the past let's say a hundred years so liberalism is on one side there's that thread there's Marxism on the other and there's postmodernism how do those interplay together so it's interesting because Marxism is and all of its various you know descendants obviously there's a lot of things that are rooted in Marxism that aren't you know the same thing is what Karl Marx preached but what do they all have in common they think liberalism is bad right they actually think that that the opposite of what Martin Luther King and other people in the civil rights and other movements they think the opposite they think he thinks you know liberalism is good we need to preserve it they said liberalism is the problem these other problems with racism and inequality that we're seeing those are inevitable results of liberalism liberalism is a rigged game and it's just the power games in disguise there is no liberal games it's just the power games in disguise and there's the upper people that oppressed the lower people and they convinced the lower people there's all about false consciousness they convinced the lower people that everything is fair and now the lower people vote against thrown in interests and they and they and they work to preserve the system that's oppressing them and what do we need to do we need to actually there's much more revolutionary we need to overthrow liberalism right so people think is oh you know like what we call a wokeness is just you know a normal social justice activist activism but it's like more extreme right it's this no no it's the polar opposite polar opposite and so now that's that's that's the Marxist threat now postmodernism is kind of you know this term that is super controversial and I don't think anyone calls themselves a postmodernist or take all of this with a green assault in terms of the term but what's the definition of radical the definition of radical to me is how deep you want change to happen at so so a liberal progressive and a conservative progressive will disagree about policies the liberal progressive wants to you know change a lot of policies change change change right and the conservative is more wants to keep things the way they are but they're both conservative when it comes to liberalism beneath it the liberal kind of foundation of the country they both want to they both become conservatives about that the Marxist is more radical because they want to go one not deeper and actually overthrow that foundation now what's below what's below liberalism is kind of the core tenets of modernity this idea of reason and the notion that there is an objective truth and science as a scientific method right these things are actually beneath and even the Marxist if you look at the Frankfurt school you know these these these post Marxist thinkers and and Marx himself they were not anti-science they believed in that bottom bottom foundation they were they were they were they were actually wanted to preserve modernity but they wanted to get rid of liberalism on top of it the postmodernist is even more radical because they want to actually go down to the bottom level and overthrow they think science itself is a tool of oppression I think it's a tool where oppression kind of flows through you know they think that the white western world has invented these concepts like you know they claim that there's an objective truth and that there's you know reason and science and they think all of that is just one meta narrative and right and and and it goes a long way to serve the interests of the powerful so in the sense that it's almost caricatured but they that is to the core there believes that math math could be racist for example oh yeah absolutely not the education of math but literally math the math the notion in math that there's a right answer and a wrong answer that they believe is a meta narrative that serves white supremacy or in in in the the postmodernist might have said it serves just a powerful or the wealthy but to so what social justice fundamentalism is is you take the Marxist thread that has been going on in lots of countries and has and and and the whoever the upper and lower is that's what the Alvin common but the upper and lower you know for for Marx was the ruling class and the oppressed class it was economic and then but you come here and and the economic class doesn't you know doesn't resonate as much here as it did maybe in some of those other places but what does resonate here in the 60s and 70s is race and gender and these kind of social justice disagreements and so what social justice fundamentalism is is this basically this this tried and true framework of Marx you know this Marxist framework kind of with a new skin on it which is American social justice and then made even more radical with the infusion of postmodernism where you know not justice liberalism bad but actually the sign you know that that like you said math can be racist so it's this kind of like philosophical Frankenstein this like stitched together of these it and has and and so again it's called you you know they were the same uniform as the liberal social justice they say social justice right you know racial equality but it has nothing to do with liberal social justice it is directly opposed to liberal social justice this is fascinating the evolution of ideas if if we ignore the harm done by it it's fascinating how humans get together and evolve these ideas so as you show Marxism is the idea of the societies is zero sum I mean I guess zero sum is a really important thing here zero sum struggle between the ruling class and the working class with power being exerted through politics and economics then you add critical theory Marxism 2.0 on top of that and you add to politics and economics you had culture and institutions and then on top of that for postmodernism you add science you have morality basically anything else you can think to stitch together Frankenstein and if you notice and which is not necessarily bad but in this case I think it's actually violating the Marxist tradition by being anti science and and and and you know and it's violating the postmodernism because what postmodernists were they were radical skeptics not just of that they were radical skeptics not just of the way things were but of their own beliefs they they and what and social justice fundamentalism is suddenly is not at all self self-critical it says that we have the answers which is the opposite of what postmodernists would ever say this and no you're just have another meta narrative so and it's also violating of course the tradition of like liberal social justice in a million ways because it's anti liberal and so this Frankenstein comes together meanwhile liberal social justice doesn't have a Frankenstein it's very clear it's very it's a crisp ideology that says we need we they're trying to make we're trying to get to a more perfect union they're trying to to to to keep the promises made in the constitution and that's what it's trying to do and so it's it's much simpler in a lot of ways so you you write that my big problem with social justice fundamentalism isn't the ideology itself it's what it scholars and activists started to do sometimes around 2013 when they began to wield a cudjo that's not supposed to have any place in the country like the US so it's the actions not the ideas well I'm clear I don't like the ideology I think it's a low-rung ideology I think it's morally inconsistent based on you know it's flip flops on on its morals depending on the the group I think it's echo chambery I think it's I think it's it's it's it's full of inaccuracies and kind of can't stand up to debate so I think it's a lot but but there's a ton of low-rung ideologies I don't like I don't like a lot of religious doctrines I don't like a lot of political doctrines right the US is a place inherently that is a mishmash of a ton of ideologies and I'm not going to like two-thirds of them at any given time so my problem the reason I'm writing about this is not because I'm like by the way this ideology is not something I like that's not interesting the reason that it must be written about right now this particular ideology is because it's not playing nicely with others what what what I if you want to be a hardcore you know evangelical Christian go in the US says live and let live not only are you allowed to to have an echo chamber of some kind you're it's actively protected here live and let live they can do what they want you do what you want now if the evangelical Christian started saying by the way anyone who says anything that conflicts with even evangelical Christianity is going to be severely socially punished and they have the cultural power to do so which they don't in this case they they might like to but they don't have the power but they're I'd be able to get anyone fired who they want and they're able to actually change the curriculum in all these schools and clad to suddenly not conflict with no more evolution in the in the textbooks because they don't want it now I would write a book about why I'd about evangelical Christianity because that's what every liberal regardless of what you think of the actual horizontal beliefs doesn't matter what they believe when when they start violating live and let live and shutting down other airy other segments of society and in kind of it's almost like a you know not to you know it's not the best analogy but like it's like a an echo chamber is like a benign tumor and what you but you have to watch out for is a tumor that starts to metastasis starts to forcefully spread and damage the tissue around it and that's what this particular ideology has been doing do you worry about it you know as an existential threat to to liberalism in in the west in the United States is it a problem or is it the biggest problem that's threatening all of human civilization it's I would never I would not say it's the biggest problem it it might be I wouldn't if someone if it turns out in 50 years someone says actually it was I wouldn't be shocked but I also I would I wouldn't bet on that because there's a lot of problems I'm a little sorry to interrupt it is popular to say that kind of thing though and it's less popular to say the same thing about AI or nuclear weapons which worries me that I'm more worried about nuclear weapons even still than I am about wokeism so I've gotten I've had probably a thousand arguments about this that's one nice thing about spending six years procrastinating on getting a book done as you end up test battle testing your ideas a million times so I've heard this one a lot right which is there's kind of three groups of former Obama voters one is super woke now yeah another one is super anti woke now and the third is what you just said which is sure wokeness is over the top right they're not you're not woke but I think that the anti woke people are totally lost their mind and it's just not that big a deal right now here's why I disagree with that because it's not it's not wokeness itself it's that of radical political movement of which there will always be a lot in the country has managed to do something that a radical movement is not supposed to be able to do in the US which is they've managed to hijack institutions all across the country and hijack medical journals and universities and you know the ACLU you know all the you know activist organizations and nonprofits and certain NGOs yeah and many and many tech companies and what so it's not that I think this thing is so bad it's a little like we say with Trump it's that what I'm what what the reason Trump scares me it's not because Trump's so bad it's that because it shows it's it reveals that we were vulnerable to a demagogue to candidate and what wokeness reveals to me is that we are currently and until something changes will continue to be vulnerable to a a bully a bully movement and an an forcefully expansionist movement that wants to actually destroy the workings inner their liberal gears and tear them apart and so here's the way of you a liberal democracy is it is it is is a bunch of these institutions that were that were trial and error crafted over you know hundreds of years and they all rely on trust public trust and there's certain kind of feeling of unity that that actually is critical to a liberal democracy's functioning and what I see this thing is as a parasite on that that whose goal is and I don't not saying each individual in this is I don't think they're bad people I think that it's it's the ideology itself has the property of its goal is to tear apart the pretty delicate workings of the liberal democracy and shred the critical lines of trust and so you talk about AI and you talk about all these other big problem nuclear right the reason I start I like writing about that stuff a lot more than I like writing about politics this was a fun topic for me is because I realized that like all of those things if they were going to have a good future with those things and they're actually threats like it's a minute to have a wits about us and we need the the liberal you know gears and and and levers working we need the liberal machine working and so with something threatening to undermine that it affects everything else we need to have our scientific mind about us about these foundation foundational ideas but I guess my sense of hope comes from observing the immune system respond to wokeism there seems to be a pro liberalism immune system and not only that so like there's intellectuals there's people that are willing to do the fight you talk about courage or being courageous and there is a hunger for that such that those ideas can become viral and they take over so I just don't see a mechanism by which wokeism accelerates like exponentially and takes over like it's expand it feels like as it expands the immune system responds are the the immune system of the of liberalism of of basically a country and at least the United States that still ultimately at the core of the individual values the freedom of speech just freedoms in general the freedom of individual but that's the battle which is so good so to me it is like a virus and an immune system yeah and I totally agree I see the same story happening and I you know I'm sitting here rooting for the immune system well he's still worried well here's the thing so liberal democracy is in always going to be vulnerable to a movement like this right and there will be more because it's not a totalitarian dictatorship because if you can socially pressure people to not say what they're thinking you can suddenly start to just take over right you you can break the liberalism of the liberal democracy quite easily and suddenly a lot of things are illiberal on the other hand the same vulnerability the same system that's vulnerable to that also is hard to truly conquer because now the Maoists right similar kind of vibe they were saying that science is evil and is you know and that they're the intellectuals are you know it's all that's all this big conspiracy but they could murder you and they had the hard cudgel in their hand right and the hard cudgel is scary and and you can conquer a country with the hard cudgel but you can't use that in the US so what they have is a soft cudgel which can have the same effect initially you can scare people into shutting up you can't maybe imprison them and murder them but if you can socially ostracize them and get them fired that basically is going to have the same effect so the soft cudgel can have the same effect for a while but the thing is it's it's a little bit of a house of cards because it relies on fear and as soon as that fear goes away the whole thing falls apart right the the soft cudgel requires people to be so scared of getting canceled or getting whatever and as soon as some people start you know Toby Lutkov Shopify I always like think about you know he just said you know what I'm not scared of this soft cudgel and spoke up and said we're not political at this company and we're not a family we're a team and we're gonna do this and you know what like they're thriving he will be on this block if he seems like a fascinating he's amazing he spoke up he's one of the smartest and like kindest dudes but he's also he has courage at a time when it's hard but here's the thing is that it's different than that you need so much less courage against a soft cudgel than you do the the Iranians throwing their hijabs into the fire those people's courage just just blows away any courage we have here because they might get executed that's the thing is that you can actually have courage right now and it's so don't worry about man the irony of that and you talk about so two things to fight this there's two things awareness encourage what's the awareness piece the awareness piece is is is under first just no understanding the stakes like getting your heads out of the sand and being like technologies blowing a backsponentially where our society's trust is devolving like we're kind of falling apart in some important ways we're losing our grip on some stability at the worst time that's the first point just a big picture and then also awareness of I think this vertical axis or whatever your version of it is this concept of how do I really form my beliefs where do they actually come from where do you know did they are they someone else's beliefs am I following a checklist how about my values you know I used to identify with the blue party or the red party but now they've changed and and I suddenly am okay with that is that because my values changed with it or am I actually anchored to the party not to any principle asking yourself these questions asking your you know looking for where do I feel disgusted by fellow human beings you know that maybe I'm being a crazy tribal person without realizing it how about the people around me am I being bullied by some echo chamber without realizing it am I the bully somewhere right so that's the first just just I think just to kind of do a self audit and and and and and I think that like just just some awareness like that it just so just self audit about these things can can go a long way but if you don't if you if you keep it to yourself it's almost useless because if it doesn't if you don't have without you know awareness without courage does very little so courage is when you take that awareness and you actually export it out into the world and it starts affecting other people and so courage can happen on multiple levels it can happen by first of all just stop saying stuff you don't believe if you're being pressured by a kind of a ideology or a movement to say stuff that you don't actually believe just stop just just just just staying your grounded don't say anything that's that's courage that's one first step start speaking out in small groups starts you know that's just speaking your mind see what happens the sky doesn't usually fall actually people usually respect you for it like you know it's not not every group but like you'd be surprised and then eventually you know maybe start speaking out in bigger groups start going public you know go go public with it but and you don't need everyone doing this like some people will lose their jobs for I'm not talking to those people most people won't lose their jobs but they have the same fear as if they would right and it's like what are you gonna get criticized or you can get a bunch of people you know angry Twitter people will will criticize you like it yeah it's not pleasant but actually that's a little bit like our primitive minds fear that really back when it was programmed that kind of ostracism or or criticism will get leave you out of the tribe and you'll die today it's kind of a delusional fear it's not actually that scary and the people who have realized that can can exercise incredible leadership right now so you have a really interesting description of censorship of self censorship also as you've been talking about who's king must action this gap I think I hope you write even more even more than you've written in the book about these ideas because it's so strong this this censorship gaps that are created between the dormant thought pile and the kind of thing under the speech curve yeah so first of all so I like to think of I think it's a useful tool is this thing called a thought pile which is if you have a on any given issue you have a horizontal spectrum and just say I could take your brain out of your head and I put it on the thought pile right where you happen to believe about that issue now I do that for everyone in the in the community or in a society and you're gonna end up with a big mushy pile that I think will often form a bell curve it's really politicized and might form like a camel with two humps because it's like concentrated here but for a typical issue it'll just form you know a fear of AI you're gonna have a bell curve right you know things like this that's the thought pile now the second thing is a line that's I call the speech curve which is what people are saying so the speech curve is high when not just a lot of people are saying but it's being said from the biggest platforms being said in the you know on the you know in the New York Times and it's being said by the president on you know in the state of the you know those things are the top of the speech curve now and then as you know and then when the speech curves lower it means it's being said either whispered in small groups or it's just not very many people are talking about it now a healthy when a when a free speech democracy is healthy on a certain topic you've got the speech curve sitting right on top of the thought pile they they mirror each other which is naturally what would happen more more people think something it's gonna be said more often in from higher platforms what censorship does and that's censorship can be from the government I so I use the tale of King mustache and King mustache he's a little tiny tyrant and he's very sensitive and people are making fun of his mustache and they're saying he's not a good king and he does not like that so what does he do he an acts of policy and he says anyone who has heard criticized anyone who has heard criticizing me or my mustache or my rule will be put to death and immediately at the town because his father was a very liberal there was always free speech in in his kingdom but now King mustache has taken over and he's saying this is a new new rules now and so a few people yell out they say that's not how we do things here and that moment that's what I call a moment of truth did the King's guards stand with the principles of the kingdom and say yeah King mustache that's not what we do in which case he would kind of have to he's nothing he can do or are they going to execute so in this case it's as if he laid down an electric fence over a part of the thought pile and said no one's allowed to speak over here the speech curve maybe people will think these things but the speech curve cannot go over here but the electric fence wasn't actually electrified until the King's guards in a moment of truth get scared and say okay and they hang the five people who spoke out so in that moment that fence just became electric and now no one criticizes King mustache anymore so I use this as an allegory now of course he has a hard cudgel because he can execute people but now when we look at the US what you're seeing right now is a lot of pressure which is very similar an electric fence is being laid down saying no one can criticize these ideas and if you do you won't be executed you'll be canceled you'll be you'll be you'll be fired now what is that fence electrified from there no they don't they can't actually they don't work in the company they can't fire you but they can start a Twitter mob when someone violates that speech curve when they when someone violates that speech rule and then the leadership at the company has the moment of truth and what the leaders should do is stand up for their company's values which is almost always in favor of the employee and say look you know even if they made a mistake they make people make mistakes we're not going to fire them or maybe that person actually said something that's reasonable and we should discuss it but either way we're not going to fire them and if they said no what happens is that the Twitter mob actually doesn't have they can't execute you they they go away and the fence is proven to have no electricity what's been the problem with the past few years is what's happened again and again is the leader gets scared and they don't they get scared in front of them they fire them boom that fence has electricity and now actually if you cross that it's not just you know a threat like you will have you'll be out of a job like it's really bad like you'll have a huge penalty you might not be able to feed your kids so that's an electric fence that goes up now what happens when an electric fence goes up and it's proven to actually be electrified the speech curve morphs into a totally different position and now these new people say instead of having the kind of marketplace of ideas you know that turns into a kind of a natural bell curve they say no no no these ideas are okay to say not just okay you'll be socially rewarded and these ones don't that's the rules of their own echo chamber that they're now applying to everyone and it's working and so the speech curve distorts and so you end up with now instead of one region which is a region of kind of active communal thinking what people are thinking and saying you now have three regions you have a little active communal thinking but mostly you now have this dormant thought pile which is all these these opinions that suddenly everyone's scared to say out everyone's thinking but this scared to say everyone's thinking but no one's saying and then you have this other region which is this the the approved ideas of this now cultural kind of dictator and those are being spoken from the largest platforms and they're being repeated by the president and they're being repeated all over the place you know even though people don't believe it and that's this distortion and what happens is the the society becomes really stupid because active communal thinking is the region where we can actually think together and now no one can think together and we we get it gets siloed into small private conversations it's really powerful what you said about institutions and so on it's not trivial to from a leadership position to be like no we we defend the employee or defend the yeah the employee the person with us on our like because we don't there's because there's no actual ground to the any kind of violation we're hearing about so the mob they resist the mob it's ultimately to the leader I guess of a particular institution of a particular company and it's difficult oh yeah no no it's not I don't if it were easy it wouldn't it there wouldn't be all of these failings and by the way this is that's the immune system failing that's the liberal immune system of that company failing but also then it's an example which means that a lot of other you know it's failing to kind of to the country it's not easy of course it's not because what because we have primitive minds that are wired to care so much about what people think of us and even if we're not gonna you know made in first of all we're scared that it's gonna start a because there's you know what you know what what a mobs do they don't just say I'm gonna criticize you I'm gonna criticize anyone who still buys your product I'm gonna criticize anyone who goes on your podcast so it's not just you it's now suddenly if if if if if Lex becomes tarnished enough now I go on the podcast and people are saying oh I'm not buying his book when I'm Lex Friedman no no thanks right and now I get about there it's a call I call it a smear web like you've been smeared and it's so we're in such a you know bad time that it smeared travels to me and now meanwhile someone buys my book and tries to share it someone said you're buying that guy's book you know he goes on Lex Friedman you know you see how this happens right so that hasn't happened in this case but that so we are so wired nothing hey that is kind of bad right like that is actually like bad for you but but we're wired to care about it so much because it meant life or death back in the day yeah yeah and luckily in this case we're both uh probably can smear each other in this conscious this is wonderful I smear you all the given given the nature of your book um what what do you think about freedom of speech as a term and as an idea as a way to resist the mechanism this mechanism of dormit thought upon artificially generated speech this ideal of the freedom of speech and protecting speech and celebrating speech well so this is this is kind of the point I was talking about earlier about king lustash made a rule against for he's created official because I just I just love the the one of the amazing things about your book as you get later on later in the book you cover more and more difficult issues as a way to illustrate the importance of the vertical perspective but there's something about using hilarious drawings throughout that make it much more fun and it takes you away from the personal somehow and you start thinking in the space of ideas versus like outside of the tribal type of thinking so it's it's a really brilliant I mean I would advise for anybody to do when they write controversial books to have hilarious drawings it's true like put a silly stick figure in your thing and it it lightens it does it lightens the mood it gets people's guard down a little bit yeah you know it works it it it reminds people that like we're all friends here right like we're you know let's like laugh like you know laugh at ourselves laugh at the laugh at the fact that we're like in a culture war a little bit and now we can talk about it right is opposed to like getting religious about it but but basically like king lustash had no first amendment he said we the government is censoring right which is very common around the world right government central them the US you know again there's some you can argue there's some controversial things recently but basically the US the first amendment is in the problem right the no one is being arrested for saying the wrong thing but this graph is still happening and so so freedom of speech when people what what if what people like to say is if someone's camp complaining about a cancel culture and saying you know this is this is anti-free speech people like to point out no it's not the government's not arresting you for anything this is called like you know the free market buddy like this is called you know you're you're putting your ideas out and you're getting criticized and your precious marketplace of ideas there it is right you I've gotten this a lot and this is not making a critical distinction between cancel culture and criticism culture criticism culture is a little bit of this kind of high wrong idea lap stuff we talked about criticism culture attacks the idea and and and and and and encourages for their discussion right it in live in this discussion it makes everyone smarter cancel culture attacks the person very different can't criticism culture says here's why this idea is so bad let me tell you cancel culture says here's why this person is bad and no one should talk to them and they should be fired and what does that do it doesn't live in the discussion it makes everyone scared to talk and it's it's the opposite it shuts down discussion so you still have your first amendment but first amendment plus cancel culture equals you might as well being king must you might as well have government censorship right first amendment plus criticism culture great now you have this vibrant marketplace of ideas so there's a very clear difference and so when when people criticize the cancel culture and then someone says oh see you're so sensitive now you know look you're doing the cancel culture yourself you're trying to punish this person for critics like no no no no we every good liberal and I and I mean that in the lower case which is that anyone who believes in liberal democracies regardless of what they believe should stand up and say no to cancel culture and say this is not okay regardless of what the actual topic is and that makes them a good liberal versus if they're trying to cancel someone who's just criticizing they're doing the opposite now they're shutting so it's the opposite things but it's very easy to get confused you can see people take advantage of the and sometimes they just don't know it themselves that the lines here can be very confusing the wording can be very confusing and without that wording suddenly it looks like someone who's criticizing cancel culture is canceling but they're not you apply this thinking to universities in particular that there's a great yet another great image on trade-off between knowledge and conviction and it's what's commonly actually maybe explains to me the difference but it's often referred to as a Dunning Kruger effect where you when you first learn of a thing you have an extremely high confidence about self-estimation of how well you understand that thing you actually say that Dunning Kruger means something else so yeah it's everyone I post this everyone's like Dunning Kruger and it's and it's what everyone thinks Dunning Kruger isn't Dunning Kruger is a little different it's it's you have a diagonal line like this one right which is the place you are it's the I call it like the humility tightrope but the humility sweet spot it's exactly the right level of humility based on what you know if you're below it you're insecure you actually have too much humility you don't have enough confidence because you know more than you're giving yourself credit for and when you're above the line you're in the arrogance zone right you're you need it you need a dose of humility right you think you know more than you do so we all want to stay on that tight rope and Dunning Kruger is basically a straight line that's just a has a lower slope so you start off you still are you still getting more confident as you go along but you start off above that line and as you learn more you end up below the line later so but any so this wavy thing this wavy thing is is is is is indifferent phenomenon and it's it's just related but so this idea so to people just listening there's a child's hill pretty damn sure you know a whole lot and feeling great about it that's in the beginning and then there's an insecure canyon you crash down acknowledging that you don't know that much and then there's a growth mountain grown up mountain where after you feel ashamed and embarrassed about not knowing that much you begin to realize that knowing how little you know is the first step in becoming someone who actually knows stuff and that's the the grown up home in your climb and climb and climb you're saying that in universities we're pinning people at the top of the child's hill so so for me that this is a very you know I think of myself with this because I went to college like a lot of 18 year olds and I was very cocky I just thought I knew what I know and I'm gonna came to politics I was like bright blue just because I grew up in a bright blue suburb and I wasn't thinking that hard about it and I thought that you know and what I did when I went to college isn't met a lot of smart conservatives and a lot of smart progressives but I've met a lot of people who weren't just going down a checklist and they knew stuff and when I and it suddenly I realized that like a lot of these views I have are not based on knowledge they're based on other people's conviction everyone else thinks that's true so now I think it's well you know I'm I'm I'm actually like I'm I'm transferring someone else's conviction to me and who knows why they have conviction they might have conviction because they're transferring from someone else what and I'm a smart dude I thought what why am I why am I like giving away my own independent you know learning abilities here and just adopting other views so anyway it was this humbling experience and it wasn't just about politics by the way it was that I had strong views about a lot of stuff and I just I got lucky not or not lucky I sought out you know the kind of people I sought out were the type that love to disagree and they were man they knew stuff and so you're quickly and you know and again I deal lab culture was an ideal lab and also I also went to I started getting in the habit I started loving listening to people who disagreed because it was so exhilarating listening to a smart when I thought there was no no credence to this other argument right the the this side of this debate is obviously wrong I wanted to see an intelligence squared on that debate I wanted to go see I actually got into intelligence squared in college I wanted to see a smart person who disagrees with me talk it became so fascinating to me right it was the most interesting thing that was a new thing I didn't think I liked that and so what did that do that that shoved me down the humble tumble here number three it shoved me down where I started to and then I and then I went the other way where I realized that I had been a lot of my identity had been based on this foe feeling of knowledge this idea that I thought I knew everything now that I don't have that I was like I felt really like dumb and I felt really it almost like embarrassed of what I knew and so that's where I call this insecure canyon I think it's sometimes when you're so used to thinking you know everything and then you realize you're done it's like it's and then you start to realize that actually really awesome thinkers they were they they don't judge me for this they totally respect if I say I don't know anything about this they say oh cool you should read this in this and this they don't say you don't know anything they don't say that right and so and not that I'm by the way this is not to say I'm now I'm grown up mountain and you should all draw me I am often find myself drifting up with like a helium balloon oh I think I read about the new thing and suddenly I think I have all I think I you know I read three things about you know a new AI thing and I'm like I'll go do a talk on this and like no I won't I don't I just I'm gonna just be spouting out the opinion of the person I just read so I have to remind myself but it's useful now what the reason my problem with colleges today is that it's I was a graduate in 2004 this is a recent change is that all of those speakers I went who's disagreed with me a lot of them were conservative so many of those speakers would not be allowed on campuses today and so many of the discussions I had were big groups or classrooms and this is still you know this was a liberal campus so many of those disagreements um they're not happening today and you I've interviewed a ton of college students it's chilly it is you know people keep to themselves so what's happening is not only are people losing that push off child's hill which was so valuable to me so valuable to me as a thinker it kind of started my life as a better thinker they're losing that but actually what college a lot of the college classes and and the vibe in colleges a lot of what it does now saying that there is one right set of views and it's this kind of you know woke ideology um and it's right and anyone who disagrees with it is bad and anyone and and don't speak up you know unless you're gonna agree with it it's teaching people that child's hills that you know it's it's it's nailing people's feet to child's hill it's teaching people that these are right this user right and like you don't have any you nothing to you should feel a complete conviction about them yeah how do we fix it is it is a part of the administration is a part of the culture is a part of the uh it's a part like actually instilling in the individual like 18 year olds the idea that this is the beautiful way to live is to embrace the disagreement and the growth from that uh it's awareness encourage it's the same thing it's so first of all just get well when at awareness is people need to see what's happening here that kids are getting losing the they're not going to college and becoming better tougher more robust thinkers yeah they're actually going to college and becoming zealots they're getting taught to be zealots and they at in the website still advertises you know wide variety of I view you know the website is a bait and switch you list all the universities yeah hard it's a bait and switch it's it's still saying here you're coming here for a wide intellectual basically they're advertising this is an idea lab and you get there and it's like actually it's an echo chamber that you're paying money for so if people realize that they start to get mad hopefully and then courage I mean starts you know yes brave students there's been some very brave students who have started you know big think clubs and stuff like that where it's like we're going to have you know present both sides of a debate here and that that takes courage but also courage and leadership like the it's it's it's like if you look at these colleges it's specifically the leaders who show strength who get who get the best results remember the the cultural is soft so if a leader of one of these places says you know that the the college presidents who have shown some strength and they actually don't get as much trouble it's the ones who pander the ones who uh in that you know in that moment of truth they they they shrink away then they get a lot more trouble the mob smells blood for the listener uh the the podcast favorite live a bird you just entered and your friend just entered the room uh do you mind if she joins us please I think there's a story she has about you so live you mentioned something that there's a funny story about we haven't talked at all about the actual process of writing the book is is there you guys made a bet of some kind yeah how is this a true story is this a complete false fabulous it's true live is she's mean when she I didn't I did not know mean live she's like she's like a bully she's like scary I have to have that have that screenshot so live was facetime in me and she was like she was like being intimidating and I took a screenshot and I made it my phone background so every time I opened it I was like yeah so to give the background of this it's because if you hadn't noticed Tim started writing this book how many years ago six 2016 mid 2016 right as sort of a response to like the Trump stuff and not not even it was yeah it was just supposed to be a mini post I was like oh I'm so like I was like I'm looking at all these like future tech things and I feel this like uneasiness like ah we're gonna like mess up all these things why there's like some cloud over our society let me just write a mini post and I opened it up to WordPress to write a one day little essay and things went on politics it was gonna be on like this feeling I had that that like this feeling I had that um we were our tech was was just growing and growing and we were becoming less wise what's what's up what's up with that and I just wanted to write like just like a little like a little thousand word essay and like something I think we should pay attention to and that was the beginning of this six year nightmare did you anticipate those the the blog posts would take a long while um I don't remember the process fully in terms of I remember you saying oh I'm actually writing this is it's turning into a bigger thing and I was like you know and because the more we talked about it I was like oh this goes deep because I didn't really understand the false scope of the situation like in a no-one ear and and you sort of explained it and I was like oh okay yeah I see that and then the more we dug into it the sort of the deeper and deeper and deeper it went but no I did not anticipate it would be six years as put it that way and why was your TED talk on the procrastination so that was that was March of 2016 and I started this book three months later and fell into the biggest procrastination hole that I've ever fallen into oh wow the irony isn't lost on me I mean it's like it's I just like I like how much cred I have as as for that TED talk I'm like I am legit procrastinator that is not I'm not just saying it like it wasn't just that because I mean you did you know you did intend it to start out as a blog post but then you're like actually this needs to be multiple actually does make it into a full series you know what I'll turn it into a book and then that's what and and what but also what live witness to few times and my wife is witness like 30 of these is like these these 180 epiphanies where I'll be like I'll like I'll have in a moment when I'm and I don't know what you know sometimes it's that there's a really good idea but sometimes it's like I'm just dreading having to finish this the way it is and so there's epiphanies where it's like you know what I need to start off from the beginning and just make this like a short like 20 little blog post list and then I'll do that and then I'll say no no no I have like a new epiphany I have to and it's these and and yeah it's kind of like the crazy person a little bit but anyway can I tell the story of the the the bad go for it all right so things came to a head when we were in we were all in vacation and Dominican Republic Tim and his wife me and ego and we were in the ocean and I remember you'd been in the ocean for like an hour just bobbing in there becoming it and we got talking and we were talking about the book and you know you were expressing just like this you know just the horror of the situation basically you're like like I just I'm so close but there's still this and then there's this and um an idea popped into my head which is the you know poker players often we we will set ourselves like negative bets you know like essentially if we don't get a job done then we have to do something we really don't want to do so instead of having a carrot like a really really big stick um so I had the idea to ask Tim okay what is the worst either organization or individual uh or you if you had to you know that you would load to give a large sum of money to and he thought about it for a little while and he gave his answer and I was like all right what's your net worth he said his net worth all right 10% of your net worth to that thing if you don't get the draft because oh that's all right but just before that I asked him how long like if you had a gun to your head onto a white head and you had to get the book into a state where you could like send off an edit to the or to a draft to your editor how long he's like oh I guess like I could get it like 95% good in a month I was like okay great and one month's time if you do not have that edit and it is really scary 10% of your net worth is going to this thing that you really really think is terrible but you're forgetting the kicker go on the kicker was that because you know procrastinators they self defeat that's what they do and then this is I'm gonna sweeten the deal and I am going to basically match you and I'm going to put in I'm gonna send this like a huge amount of my own money there if you don't do it so and I can't that's that would be really bad not only you screwing yourself you're screwing a friend and she and she was like and as your friend because I'm your friend I will send it I will send the money you I mean like that you know like to tyranny yeah and I got the drafting yeah I know I know I was I was actually it was it was funny because it was it was like supposed to be by the summer solstice or whatever it was like a certain date and I got it in it for I got no I got it in it 4 a.m like the next morning but then and and and and they were both like that's doesn't count I'm like it does it's still for me it's the same day still it's okay do you imagine how fucked in the head you have to be yeah so like literally technically pass the deadline by four hours I for an an obscene amount of money to a thing you load that's how bad the his sickness because I knew the hard hard deadline I knew that there was no way she was gonna actually send that money it's because it was 4 a.m. so I knew I actually had the whole night so yeah you know I should actually punish you and just I should send I should send like a nominal amount to that thing no thanks no but is there some micro like lessons from that from how to avoid procrastination writing a book that you've learned yes well I've learned a lot of things I mean like first don't take don't write like a dissertation about like proving some grand theory of society because that's really procrastinating like I would have been an awful PhD student for that reason some and so like I'm gonna do another book and it's gonna be like a bunch of short chapters that are one-offs because that's like it's just doesn't feed into your book is like a giant like framework there's grand there's all through your book I know and I learn not to do that again I didn't want I don't want to do it again oh with the book yeah I learned because the giant yes don't do another one of this looks like some people should it's just not for me I I just did it I know and it and it almost killed me okay so that's the first one but secondly yeah like basically there's two ways to fix procrastination one is you fix it's like a picture you have a boat that's leaking and it's not working very well you can fix it in two ways you can get your hammer and nails out and your boards and actually fix the boat or you can duct tape it for now to get yourself across the river but it's not actually fixed so ideally down the road I have repaired whatever kind of bizarre mental illness that I have that makes me procrastinate in a very like I just don't self-defeat in this way anymore but in the meantime I can duct tape the boat by bringing what I call the panic monster into the situation via things like this and this scary person and having external pressure to have external pressure of some kind is critical for me it's it's yes I don't have the muscle to do the work I need to do without external pressure by the way live is there a possible future will you write a book yeah and meanwhile by the way huge procrastination that's the funny thing about this yeah yeah I mean I'm how long did you last video take oh my god sir advice you they give to live how to get the videos done faster well it would be the same exact thing I mean actually I can give good procrastination advice panic monster yeah well we should do it together it should be like we have this date but you know it's it's um we said she just do another bet I have to have my script done by this time yes yeah so I go to get the third part out because then you'll actually do it um and um and and it's not the thing is the time in but it's like if you if you could take three weeks on a video and instead you take 10 weeks it's not like oh well I'm also I'm having more fun in those time because you're you're the whole 10 weeks are bad yeah it's torture bad so you're you're just you're just having a bad time and you're getting less work done and less work out and it's not like you're enjoying your personal life it's bad for your for your relationships it's bad for your your own you don't keep doing it anyway yeah well a lot of people a lot of people have troubles keeping a diet right yeah primitive mind why'd you point at me that's offensive the the the what's your procrastination weakness do you have them everything everything everything everything everything preparing for a conversation I had your book amazing book I really enjoyed it I started reading it I was like this is awesome it's so awesome that I'm going to save it when I'm behind a computer and can take notes like good notes of course that resulted in like last minute everything everything everything everything I'm doing in my life not everyone's like that you know people themselves a feet different ways some people don't have this particular problem Adam Grant is a he calls himself a pre-crastinator where he gets an assignment he will go home and do it until it's done and handed it which is also not necessarily good you know it's like you you rushing it either way but it's better but some people have the opposite thing where they will the the the the the the looming deadline makes them so anxious that they go and fix it right and the procrastinator I think has a similar anxiety but it they they solve it in a totally different way or they don't solve it they just live with the anxiety right right they just live with the anxiety now I think there's a he even bigger group of people this so there's these people the Adam Grant's there's people like me and then there's people who have a healthy relationship with deadlines but they're still part of a bigger group of people that actually they they they they need a deadline there to do something so they actually they they still are motivated by a deadline and as soon as you have all the things in life they don't have a deadline like working out and like working on that album you wanted to write they don't do anything either so there's actually like that's for procrastinations a much bigger problem than people realize because it's not just the funny last second people it's anyone who actually can't get things done that don't have a deadline you dedicate your book quote to Tannis who never planned on being married to someone who would spend six years talking about his book on politics but here we are what's the secret to a successful relationship with a procrastinator that's maybe for both of you um well I think the the first most important thing you already started with a political answer I could tell okay go no no the first and most important thing is because people who don't procrastinate if you know it's like you will the people in the instinct is to judge it as like uh that's a either either just think think they're just being like a loser or they're taking it they'll take it personally you know uh and instead to see this is like this is this is a uh of some form of addiction or some form of um ailment you know they're not just being a dick right like they have a problem and so some compassion but then also maybe finding that line where you can you know maybe apply some tough love some middle ground on the other hand you might say that you know you don't want the the significant other relationship where it's like they're into one nagging you maybe that's you don't want them even being part of that and I think it maybe it's you know better to have a live do it instead right having someone who can like create the infrastructure where they aren't the direct stick you need a bit of carrot and stick right maybe they can be the person who keeps reminding of them of the carrot and then they set up the friend group to be the stick and then that keeps your relationship yeah in a in a good way stick like looming in the background that's your friend group okay at the beginning of conversation we talked about how all of human history can be presented as a a thousand page book what are you excited about for the one thousand what do you say that first page so the next 250 years what do you what do you what do you most excited about I'm most excited about um have you read the fable of the dragon okay well it's an allegory for death and it's you know Nick Bostrom and he he talks about the he compares death to a dragon that eats 60 million people or whatever the number is every year and you just every year we shember those people up and they feed into the dragon and that there's a stock home syndrome when we say that's just a lot of man and that's what we have to do and anyone who says maybe we should try to beat the dragon they get called vain and narcissistic um but someone who tries to someone who goes does chemo no one calls them bane or narcissistic they say they're they're no good good for you right you're hero you're you're you're fighting fighting the good fight so I think there's some disconnect here and I think that if we can get out of that stock home syndrome when realized that death is just the machine that the human physical machine failing and that there's no law of nature that says you can't with enough technology um uh repair the machine and keep it going until no one I don't think anyone wants to live forever people think they do no one does but until people are ready and I think when we hit a world where we can we we have enough tech that we can continue to keep the human machine alive until the person says I'm I'm done I'm ready I think we will look back and we will think that anything before that time that'll be the real adbc you know we'll look back at bc before the big advancement and it'll seem so sad and so heartbreaking barbaric and people say I can't believe that humans like us had to live with that when they lost loved ones and they they did died before they were ready I think that's the ultimate achievement but we need to stop criticizing and smearing people who you talk about it so you think we're that's actually doing the next two two hundred fifty years okay a lot happens in two hundred fifty years especially when technology really exponentially yeah and you think humans will be around versus AI completely takes over I mean I mean look the optimist in me and maybe the stupid kind of 2023 person in me says you have course we'll make it we'll figure it out but you know I mean we are going into a great you know I have a friend who knows as much about the future as anyone I know I mean he's really he's a big investor and stuff you know future tech and he he's really on the pulse of things and he just says future is going to be weird that's what he says future is going to be weird and it's it's gonna be weird don't look at the last few decades of your life and apply that forward and say that's just what life is like no no it's going to be weird and different well some of my favorite things in this world are weird and speaking of which it's good to have this conversation it's good to have you as friends this was an incredible one thanks for coming back and thanks for talking to me a bunch more times this was awesome thank you Lex thank you thanks for listening to this conversation with Tim Urban to support the spot guess please check out our sponsors in the description and now let me leave you with some words from wisdom Churchill when there's no enemy within the enemies outside cannot hurt you thank you for listening and hope to see you next time
