B-Team Jiu Jitsu: Craig Jones, Nicky Rod, and Nicky Ryan | Lex Fridman Podcast #363
 How would a kangaroo attack a human? Knock him down and then they choke him. The kangaroos do? They choke each other, yeah. They don't choke each other. You don't believe me? You want to watch a video? They choke each other out. I've seen this, yeah. I mean, probably the most annoying one was obviously the one where I had going to Namba. I was like, tap bro. And he wouldn't tap. So I let him out. I didn't get surgery. I didn't do essentially any injury. I just have no seal. My left leg. So what's the leg having no surgery? Guys, you've got two options. Surgery, rehab only. Nikki goes, I'll do nothing. Yeah. I mean, what could possibly go wrong if you're the world's best grappler hates you and you're gently provoking and bonacines every day? Well, I mean, in Texas. And you've stolen his brother, held it for ransom. It is like a story of a shitty western. The last part of a difficult wake up for me is I try to find a sad movie and at least cry. I'm about to pound out. I really guess I'm over the line. What are the rules in the streets? Do you think if you're on steroids, you would have finished the choke? I mean, for sure. Who knew that the queue to the daggest and irresling? What the Aussies? The following is a conversation with Craig Jones, Nicky Rodd and Nicky Ryan, who together with Ethan Crelanston and others make up the B team. A legendary Jiu-Jitsu team here in Austin, Texas. It was formed after the so-called Donahar Death Squad, the team headed by John Donahar split up into new wave Jiu-Jitsu and B team Jiu-Jitsu. Both located here in Austin, Texas. There has been a lot of trash talk back and forth, including accusations of greasing and steroid use. And I, as a practitioner and fan of grappling Jiu-Jitsu and martial arts in general, and here for it. To see the best grapplers in history, go at it, both on the mat and on Instagram. I like the people on both teams and train with both. And I'm really happy to see the exciting rapid evolution of the sport that these athletes and coaches are catalyzing. This is the Lexington Podcast. The sport, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now, dear friends, here's Craig Jones, Nikki Rodd and Nikki Ryan. Craig, can you introduce everyone? Yep, so we got Nikki Rodd here, Brown Bell, two-time ADCC Silver Medalist, Nikki Ryan here. That's it. Who are you? And I'm Craig Jones, also two-time ADCC Silver Medalist. Silver Medalist, so the number one loser. And maybe a little bit more. Here, Bio says, widely known as the Black Bought Slayer Hales from New Jersey, the land of pizza and biceps. Yes, that's pretty accurate. Okay. You also do care gone on you a lot? Yeah, I keep it loaded, you know? You keep it on me? Uh-huh. Yeah, one today. Uh, in the car? That was a mistake. That was your first mistake. Yeah, I think you're too close. Very awkward. And you are Nikki Ryan. What else is there? What else do we know? Go on, Ryan's brother. Go on, Ryan's brother. So, just look at that one. All right. So, and you're all together, part of the leadership of the B team here in Austin. Let's just get out some introductory questions. What, in general, accomplishment of the things you mentioned you most proud of? I mean, I'm proud just to not have to work a full-time job just to get by. On the bullshit I've done so far. Yeah. Honestly. Just making money of a thing you love. Exactly, yeah. What was the first time you made money on a thing you love? Uh, probably a jujitsu tournament. I think maybe in Abu Dhabi where I won $1,000, I thought I was rich. Yeah. Yeah. Would you spend $1,000 on? Probably something bad. Probably drugs or something at the time. Maybe. Bluewood at the after party. That's a good introduction, Craig. What about you? When's the first time you made money on jujitsu? Or what's actually stepping back? Like, what's the thing you're most proud of? Is it a similar kind of thing? I think I think I'm most proud of is, I mean, for sure, two ADCC Silver medals, which hurts because you're so close to getting that gold. But, you know, it takes time. I'm understanding that, you know, sport of jujitsu takes quite a while to be at the tip top to be the absolute best. So, uh, and I'm just being consistent in my training and my craft. I don't get that no one spot one day. What failure loss is the most painful to you? I don't know. I could probably have a pretty short-term memory. So, my loss is I just like, I'll just forget about it. Yeah. I mean, for sure, my loss at this past ADCC in the finals, you know, that one's still in good bit because I definitely thought I was going to win. I mean, it takes a while to produce the skills or the reactions more so that you need to have to be, you know, to be that number one pound for pound guy. And, you know, pre-ADCC, I was coming off at injury. So, it took me a little bit to find the right mentality and physicality that I needed in order to, you know, get the wins that required gold. So, yeah, it's just process. Interesting. You keep saying process. Like, it takes a while to build up. So, you're not like thinking of a loss like ADCC is like a specific failure. So, you're not, you haven't gone long enough in a particular process to being a champ. Well, I mean, for me, I'm coming, I'm closing on on five years of success. Specifically, Jitsu training, I'm about four and a half right now. And yeah, it's just the, you kind of, you constantly have these ups and downs in training where like, as long as you stay consistent, you'll have a gradual raise. But you know, it's still you'll have these peaks and lows and, you know, just, just trying to get better every day. I'm definitely not where I will be in a few years, in a few years from now, but I'm striving to get there. Are you actually a Bronbo? It was at a joke. A Bronbo, yeah. Yeah. You're a Bronbo. Like, how many stripes? No stripes. No stripes. Stripless. Okay. Is that part of the process that you're working through? Definitely part of the process. I mean, I think a black belt is just based upon how much knowledge you have. Obviously, like, you know, if you're talking competitive-wise, like, from when I started, I was able to beat most black belts. That's just kind of how I was gifted from my, my wrestling experience. And, you know, the title come when it's right, but I'm not in a rush at all. I'm continuing. I just kind of take every day for what it is and try to improve upon that. I mean, I want to give him the black belt. Nikki Ryan says he's not ready. What is... Are you guys... Like, there's no geefogs. Do you take that seriously? Like the black belt? Or like, how much does it come into play into... Yeah. I mean, it's like Nikki Ryan said, you know, it's based off of knowledge, not just, you know, what you do out on the competition mats, because, you know, like he said, he had years of wrestling experience, and obviously he's very physically gifted. So we grade based off of the amount of knowledge that you have. Like, how do you measure knowledge? I think teaching is a good measurement of it, like how well you're able to show the moves, and, you know, really make sure that you have an understanding of what you're doing. Yeah, it's an interesting rank. It's like, something that takes many years to accomplish. And for a lot of people, it's truly meaningful. It's like, it represents a particular step in a journey. But for you guys, it's almost like different because you've been so focused on competition that I guess if you take a seriously, it is a big step for you too. Like a martial artist that's bigger than just being like top of the world competitors. Right. So I thought it was a joke. You guys are actually taking it seriously. Like, that is a brown belt. That is a brown belt, and you're taking seriously the rank of black belt, and like, it's part of, it's part of your journey. I think by the time I get a black belt, I'll be no more pal for a pound. I think it'd be pretty nice to accomplish that as a brown belt, and then maybe toss a black belt on top. Like, promote it on the podium. What do you guys, do you love winning or hate losing more? I definitely don't hate losing. But pays the bills out of a month. Oh, really? Yeah, but honestly, if I win, I feel more relief than anything rather than like excitement and stuff. I'm like, oh, fuck, thank God that's over. I hate losing for sure. But I understand that it's necessary to get to where you want to be. And then winning is like, I mean, what I think winning is probably the closest you can think you can get to like heroin or something. Because I mean, we're on a, like if you do have extreme success and a torment that you've been, you know, adamant about training for and competing in for a while, and you end up winning it, I mean, I feel like you're on that high for days at a time afterwards. Heroin's going to be better. You think so? I'm a stick with no. But I'm not going to suck dig to win. You suck dig for heroin. I'm good. I guess that's a good point. Yeah. But you know, like, because you, you're coming from a little bit of a wrestling culture. One of the things I really love is at the end of the match when they lose, they just, there's no, they just run off. They're like almost pissed off. It's like some mixture of anger and frustration at themselves. I think, I think sometimes that people like freak out on the mat. And I think that's just a, to show everybody like, they're acting like they care it a lot. And really maybe they then work enough to, you know, get to where they want to where they expect it to be. And they lost and they have this big boost of emotion like after they're, after they're lost. But, yeah, I mean, I shouldn't, I think you just cry in the mirror, not to everybody else, you know. What have you ever cried watching a movie? I don't think I've ever cried, period. Okay. Have you cried watching a movie? No, yeah. No, yeah. The notebook. I try to avoid those. I lie, actually, Titanic. The last part of a difficult wake up for me is I try to find a sad movie and at least cry. I better pound out. That really gets me over the line. Low energy cutting. The tears. There's other following liquids I could talk to you about, but let's just, let's just continue on. Low energy. What, what about you, Nikki? Love a winning versus hate of losing. I'm a very competitive person, so I for sure hate losing more than I like winning. I do think it's something that's kind of held me back over the past few years because it makes it so that I'm not as active as I should be because it's like I really hate that feeling of, you know, after a match that you just lost. So it kind of prevents me from competing. So it's definitely something I need to work past. So like when you think about a competition, the possibility of losing, which is always that in competition, is the thing that like ways heavy on you in the months and weeks leading up to it. Yeah, my whole life, you know, my financial stability, everything depends on, you know, my ability to go out there and compete and my ability to teach. So you know, it's a huge hit to the brand if you lose. So, you know, leading up to matches, that's definitely something that's in my mind. I know. So you guys are like world class athletes, but for me more like a hobbyist competitor, I compete a lot. The thing I was, is I really wanted to win. The thing I was probably most afraid of is not just losing, but like embarrassing myself. Yeah. Even actually winning by stalling. That was the thing I hated the most about myself in terms of crying in the mirror. It's like being too afraid to take risks after I'm up on two points or something. I think you got a competition. Sometimes it's good to take the emotion out of it. It's too easy sometimes to like think about all my girls and in the crowd, my family's watching. Like I want to win because they're there. But the highest level of your emotional at all. No, that's affecting you. Yeah. That's tough though. That's tough. Especially like leading up to when you're on the map maybe, but leading up to it. I think it's okay to be emotional prior. Like, you know, if we know ADCC or is coming up and we have a big match, like definitely I'll go out in practice and I'll visualize. I'll pull myself in that competition that way when it's game time. It's like I've been there a thousand times already. So not the actual competition, but even leading up to it, like stepping in the map, like all the walk towards it, all that stuff. All that stuff. I'll do the same exact warm up for weeks on end and to my competition day, comments that's way that way, you know, when I compete, I'm just like, it's another Tuesday at practice. What about you, Craig? How do you prepare mentally for a tournament like ADCC? I push it completely out of my mind. Don't even think about it. Try to avoid any visualization. Any rituals, warm ups, anything like that, block it out into the last second. Yeah, trying to think about it. I just got a training title fun, learn a bit. So I try to approach competition the exact same way. I don't warm up a training. Do very little warm up for competition. Uh-huh. And do you just step on the mat? Step on the mat. It's my philosophy is there's no warm ups on the street. We're so vastly different. All right. So like legit don't warm up. No, I probably should now 31, but I would just like in the gym, get easy the first round. You know, like if I look around the room and Nikki Ryan said, I might go, all right, we'll have an easier first round today. So even for like the most high stakes matches, you try to push it out. Yeah, I didn't think about it. What about like all the social like Instagram posts you have to do about that match? You just make a joke out of it and kind of, I mean, that's kind of pretty. It's silly, you know, we're just wrestling each other. You know, we put the meaning into it, but to someone that doesn't fall in the sport, it looks stupid. Well, all of human existence is pretty silly. Like what are we doing? None of us really know what's going on. We kind of have sex to reproduce. We get hungry, we eat, and then we're all chasing money and cars and whatever the hell in a capitalist society. Or we worship a dictator in a authoritarian regime. Yeah. We get off on, we'll let power abuses and then we just murder others because we get off on it. Yeah. And then eventually all of us will die because the sun will run out of energy because colonizing other planets is very difficult. It's another matter. It's a good philosophy. It's pretty, pretty good. That's exactly what I was saying. How does the sun run out of energy? Well, you call me there. It's burned out. It's a nuclear fusion engine that eventually burns out. When you get tired of training, it's never happened. I try to get tired. I just like, dude, it's not working. All right, cool. So you legit don't care about losing. It doesn't weigh heavy on you. I try not to list, like if I win, I try to block out all the compliments, all the niceties and stuff. So I try to get the same with losing. It's happened. Move on to the next one. Don't dwell on it too much. And sometimes make a joke out of it. Yeah, exactly. If you're losing with the right joke, we can make money off of the event that's just transpired. That's what's most important. Excellent. Thank you. I have a bunch of your merch. Oh, nice. This one's the Jordan boroughs rip off. All I see is silver. The wheat pronounce boroughs is very sexy. Okay. I throw lines at people and I try to gauge your reaction. Like sometimes I'll say something on a nicky and I'll be like, all right, that's probably crossing the line. You know, I mean, we'll turn it down to the public. So yeah, yeah. So it's not just right. You have to think is this crossing the line. Yeah, yeah. I get as close to it as possible. Yeah. I feel like he can't really cross it just a little bit. Just a little bit. Yeah. Okay. Speaking of which, you said that I'm Switzerland in World War II since I'm friends with both you and Gordon and John. I'm a rich country. Are you a Hitler or Stalin, by the way, in this analogy? Would you like to be Hitler or Stalin? And should you make a T-shirt out of it or? I mean, I'd not see T-shirt. I don't know how well that sells. Yeah. I think it would, you know, I think that let's bring storm on this one offline. I think since Hitler lost. So you got second place in World War II. That's true. That makes you Hitler. Anyway, to the degree that you can, can you tell the story of how the time you've had with the Donahar Death Squad and Y's split up? I competed against Gordon for ADCC and the EBI in 2017. And I remember I competed against him at ADCC and then we had the EBI event and then I had a Kassai. I used to compete all the time every week. I wouldn't even do the preparation or anything. I'd just be like trying to disseminate my money and then jump in and compete. I remember I shut up to Kassai after I faced him twice. And there were like four locker rooms and they put me with all the DDS guys. It was just me and all of DDS. And I think we competed the week we came before. So I thought it was going to be super awkward, but it was actually pretty chill. And the Kassai was in New York and they suggested to come train that week. So I came trains, hung out with them a bit. Ultimately, the goal was to move to America and join a bigger team just because that flight to Australia's death. Australia is so far away from everywhere. It's kind of like not realistic to base yourself in Australia and all the tournaments are in America. And then I went in train with the guys and they just had a massive, massively deep talent pool in that room. Like show up to like a mid to be 7am, actual 8am class on Brazilian time. There'd be like a hundred people in there maybe. I don't know how many black belts, but a ton of elite guys. And I was coming from Australia, training with Auckland Jiles. But really that room was pretty shallow and like most people had serious jobs and stuff. So it was like basically me just training with Auckland, maybe a couple of other guys. And then to go to New York and have access to a what array of training partners and guys that are training twice each day. I feel like that's what you really need. You need people that can train as much as you are. Yeah, humbled. Yes, humbled in that room at first. For sure, because my style of the time was basically a rip off version of what they were doing. And leg locks came in. I remember just washing Eddie Cummings non-stop and just seeing this guy rip people's legs off and I was like, you know what, that's probably a good move. You know, that looks like an easier path to victory than trying to beat these guys at what they're good at already. My philosophy at the time was if it's bothering old Brazilians, it's bothering them for a reason. It's probably effective. And that's the path I talked to sort of try to rip off their moves. And then obviously to go into that room, try to do them to them, it's going to be a bit more difficult. All right. So that's how it started. How did you end up here? How do we end up here? We're in Austin, Texas. I mean, I like to think of Puerto Rico as apocalypse now. John Danahe as Colonel Kurtz. Things got very weird in the jungle and the teams went into different directions. But honestly, I mean, it's still really my story to tell. I had some issues with some of those people. At the time of the split, I got along very well with John. I feel like me and him connected very well. I don't know why that was. Maybe it was just because of the, he missed home. He missed a familiar accent, Australian New Zealand accent. But I mean, I basically followed Nikki, left with Nikki, sort of that core group of guys left with Nikki. And I mean, I just back, there was personal problems. I just back Nikki, basically. Got it. Just sticking on you for a bit. Is there a part of you that, you know, finds it heartbreaking that DDS split up? This part of you miss working with John and everybody? Like can you steal a man in the case for that? I mean, I miss certain aspects of it, but I also do prefer the freedom of being apart from it. It's obviously a very strict regime under John Danahe. You know, obviously, it's possible. I miss the parts, the public doesn't see of John. The behind the scenes bands, I feel like he's very conscious of the imagery portrays to the world. But basically, it closed doors. He's always making jokes, always finding, I guess, more in line with the Australian Kiwi sort of culture. But you don't really see that in the public eye. So that perspective, I do miss that relationship with John. In terms of setting aside personal differences, Gordon was a good training partner, definitely a good training partner to train with. Obviously, the negative things we can't really talk about outweighed all of those things. And we obviously had to make a decision to leave. But yeah, is that happening in the jungle? The things happen in the jungle. Should I never be spoken of? But I personally cannot speak up. Yeah, but obviously, I do miss certain aspects. Like, I mean, nothing's all bad, nothing's so good, you know? Yeah, this goes back to your like everything we're doing at silly. Exactly. Exactly. I saw it on get people take it so serious. That's why it's so serious. It's just pretty stupid, really. Especially in the key, it looks just bad. And then I mean, it's pretty silly with and without the key. Sam looks so much of apes. What's silly about? No key and what's silly about the key and just makes the match bottoms there, you know what I mean? Wait, which one? Sam, I see what you're doing. Brother, you come to my house and to pet my people. All right. We're going to go to every dark place, apparently. Nick, how did you get with DDS? Like, what was that journey like? Is there a try to see if there's things that you remember fondly that you've gotten from the experience? All right. So the way I started training with DDS, initially, I was training for like, well, initially I was a bouncer, right? I dropped out of college to pursue this fitness modeling career. I ended up signing with a Will and Meadow models up in New York and I was like, try to get in better shape. And while I was bouncing kind of the talk of like, you know, who's tougher came up between the wrestlers and a few of the bouncer's that trained Jiu Jitsu. And you know, they convinced me to go to a practice and I went to my first practice over there. And for the most part, I just controlled everybody. Got on top of them was able to avoid like kind of like, you know, shitty submissions because I had an awareness of the sport and, you know, I'm a fan of fighting and whatnot. So, you know, I kind of understood it pretty well. And then soon after that, I joined a school and my second week of Jiu Jitsu, I started competing, had pretty good success. You know, I was like, sub in a few black belts and beating everybody like, you know, pretty decisively with points and stuff. And about three months into training locally, I got connected with Gordon Ryan and John Danher up in New York. And I started, I committed to, you know, make the drive up there as many days as I could. At the time I lived in South Jersey, and it was about two and a half hour, three hour drive without traffic to New York. Where in South Jersey? Gloucester County. Clayton, New Jersey specifically, but Gloucester County. Yeah. So it was about about 130 miles and without traffic, you know, about two and a half hours or so, but on the way back, man, we, it'd be three plus sometimes, you know, you catching that rush hour. Wait a year, was this, do you remember? I was just in 2018, but I forget how young you are. Yeah. I was there before, before all that. All right. Cool. Anyway, you're doing the long drive and then, and then what? Yeah, doing the long drive. And then, you know, once I won ADCC, it's always able to make a couple of bucks. And then, you know, I got myself a medal at ADCC and I was able to afford to live up there in New York and in most Jersey area. So I lived up there, trained there full time every day. And it was kind of stuck with the team throughout throughout the turbulent times and found myself in Austin in the jungle in the jungle. The things we shall not speak of. What, what are the things that you remember that you've learned from John Donner, who are from your time spent with him? Yeah. I mean, I definitely learned the ton from, from John and the team as a whole. Like, you know, it's, you have to be the guy that acts questions it in the type of environment, right? It's not, you're not going to get singled out to be that specific, like, star or the, the best guy in the room when you have all these other, you know, stud athletes. So I really have to seek out and, and figure out the kind of questions that I need to ask. And once I became a bit more verbal with my training and, you know, I was showing, I'm, I'm expressing all my curiosities about grabbing to these guys, definitely help boost my, boost my technique in my career as a whole. Yeah. Did you understand what kind of stuff, like technically you want to get good at, what fits your body, what, like, what would be good for you? What, what are your weaknesses and all that? So initially, and when I started grappling, I had, and the innate ability to just get to opponents back. So I was like, all right, I'm good at getting to the back. Let me get, let me perfect controlling the back and then submitting a opponent via every naked choke. And then besides that, I really focused on leg lock defense and that eventually came the Rodilock pass where, you know, I'm, I'm really good at body lock pass in my opponents now. And yeah, just takes quite a long time because you have to find different sequences and then there's always these, and abundance of opportunities that your opponent gets from these specific sequences. So it takes a while. Is there a part of you that finds the fact that DGS split up heartbreaking? I definitely, you know, having one person to go to that runs practice every day that's, you know, consistent. It was definitely, it was definitely a gift, but now I've also gifted with many, many other partners. I have Nikki Ryan, you know, Craig Jonesy, E-Pause, Craig Jones. Yeah, yeah. We have Ethan Crowley, Steve Damien, Anderson. So a full team of knowledgeable athletes that I can continue to go to with multiple questions. But yeah, definitely, definitely, it took me some time to adjust to training or to learning from, you know, specifically my team and not just one person. We should mention for people just listening because you can't visually see that Nikki Ryan is currently terrified. And Craig Jones is currently enjoying the fact that he's there. Anyway, can you talk about your Nikki, can you talk about your title with DDS? I started training when I was like around 13, you know, my brother Gordon had started prior to me and I really just went into training just as like a means to exercise and lose weight at the beginning because I was pretty fat as a kid. So I went to the first class, loved it, and then just started training every day at Gary Schimm, Brunswick. And then during the summer when I'd get off from school, they would take me up to New York to train under John. And you know, I just absolutely loved it. I knew what I wanted to do with my life at a young age. So I ended up dropping out of school actually after my freshman year in high school. So yeah, 15, I ended up dropping out and just pursuing Jiu-Jitsu full time, you know, training every day up in the blue basement. Well, like what aspect of Jiu-Jitsu was it made you know that this is the thing for you? It's just something I just enjoyed being, you know, like on the mats every day. I love that there's, you know, a problem solving aspect to it. So it's, you know, it's mentally challenging. It's physically challenging. It helps me get in shape. So I just, yeah, right off the bat, I knew I loved it. Okay. So then we'll go to the jungle. What happened in the jungle? And in general, like, I like this, I like this, this is like this like, shroud of mystery that she'll never be penetrated. That should never be like, we've got a book deal. It's coming on. Obviously left Oscar, he's not riding it. Okay. Okay. I'll do the Russian translation. Okay. So what are, what are things that you enjoy that you remember from work on John Donner? Yeah. I mean, you know, obviously he's considered one of the best coaches in the world. You know, very charismatic guy when you see him in person. You know, I pretty much was, you know, kind of raised in the DDS. You know, that's where I spent the majority of my time every day. So I obviously had very deep connections, you know, with John, my brother, Gary, you know, even Eddie Cummings and stuff back then. So obviously I'm interacting with those guys every day. And you know, it's like they said, it's good to have somebody to kind of crack the whip at you every day. And John was very good at that. When you're like younger in your teenage years, you can kind of, you like have to get humbled, right? There's like a process to that. Yeah, for sure. And it's a pretty good room to get humbled in, I guess. Yeah, exactly. I was, I started training with them just when like everybody started to break out. Gary was like the biggest name at the time, just because he had 180 CC trials already. And he had a crazy match with Cron at a Cron Gracie at a ADCC. But Eddie was just starting to break out. Gordon just started winning EBI. So I started training under John, you know, right when everything was exploding. What are the good things about life, about your Jets? You learn from your brother. Both me and my brother never really wanted to, you know, work a full time job doing something that we hate. And he was always, you know, a very confident person. So he just went, you know, fully, fully started pursuing Jetsu. So I'm very happy that, you know, he did that and I ended up falling in his footsteps because you can ask these guys, I'm a lazy sack of shit out of outside of the, the, the mat. So that's, that's definitely one thing that I'm very grateful for. He paved the way like you can, you can make money doing stuff you love. Yeah, exactly. And he was, he was a big reason, you know, why my parents eventually let me drop out of school because, you know, when, when they were coming out, there was, there's no money in the sport. It was very hard to make a full living. Like if you wanted to actually make a living, you'd eventually have to transfer to MMA. And I feel like Gordon and, and Gary and those guys were, you know, some of the first people to make a very good living off of Jetsu. At this party, you find it heartbreaking that you split up from DDS, but also from your brother in terms of spending time in the mat every day. Yeah. For sure, you know, I mean, growing up, you know, obviously he's, he's my big brother. I looked up to him a lot. So I definitely, like I said, I'm misinteracting with those guys. I was pretty much raised, you know, in that blue basement, you know, that John was like, you know, a father figure to me. So I definitely, you know, miss, miss seeing those guys every day. Do you have animosity towards Gordon? And does he have animosity towards you? And what is the source of that? And do you think you'll ever be able to forgive each other? Definitely initially during the, the initial split, we definitely hated each other at the beginning. But it's definitely started to, to calm down actually just prior to, you know, all this social media drama that's going on currently. He had reached out to me. And that was literally like the first time that we have actually talked since, since the split happens. We didn't talk to each other for was it now like almost two years. And that was the first time that, you know, we, we interacted again and overall, you know, he wasn't, you know, aggressive towards me. I wasn't aggressive towards him. You were cracking some jokes. So hopefully the, the animosity is going down. Well, there's this Godfather quote that wrote down. I was there rewatched it from, from the dawn from Don Corleone, a Vita Corleone, the strength of a family, like the strength of an army lies in its loyalty to each other. Is there some aspect of family that you miss of blood that kind of connects you? They can count on. Yeah. My parents, you know, they, they both raised us that, you know, like families, everything you never, you know, betray your family or anything like that. So I definitely, you know, missing from time to time. Okay. Imagine you're like 40 years from now, sitting on a porch with a shotgun, drinking whiskey, looking over like all the land you've conquered, looking back to this moment is the reason you split up a bullshit reason. What's it a good reason from the perspective of the king who has now conquered the lands, have proven himself, have done everything. I think it was definitely like a justifiable reason for the team splitting, like it just, with the way things were going, it just was not going to work with, you know, all of us in the same room together. I was a started, you know, affecting training. People didn't feel comfortable in things. So I definitely think that it was a justifiable reason to split. The things that happened in the jungle, yeah, to be told about in the book. It's gonna be an audio book or is it just going to be it? And who's going to voice it? Might be a play. A musical. Yeah, he's on Broadway. How's your singing voice? Mine's not so good, but Nicky has a beautiful voice. Does he have an angel? Like I had bad. Okay. Speaking of the social media drama, I should mention that I've talked to recently to Gordon a bunch. I've talked to him about talking to you guys and he's had nothing but really nice things to say about you, Nicky, right? And he has had nothing but bad things. What was some of the things? There it is. Well, let's just go to the social media first. Because the social media stuff that he said publicly is just like a warm up. It's like a four-play, I guess. So Gordon sent you, Nicky, a broad, flowers for Valentine's Day posting on Instagram, quote, I've been fucking him in every round in competition since we met in 2018. The least that can do is buy him flowers. We didn't get the flowers. No, there we go. That was the question. He said he sent us to the wrong address. He did? Yeah. Word, what do you think he sent it? It was close, but it was wrong. Did you appreciate the romantic gesture? I did. I was looking forward to the flowers and potentially chocolates in there. But it was a bit of a let down. Can you describe your recent match against Gordon, the EBI match? OK. So EBI match on UFC Fight Pals, it was a 20-minute match. And immediately, you know, match starts, I pulled guard. And then I stand up. He pulls guard. And we have this kind of like back and forth where he's trying to dig for underhook, trying to get on top of me and he can't really find success. And now, and then in the midst of me trying to work by bodylock pass, Gordon is able to underhook a leg and we end up in a leg entanglement. And then I'm able to transfer that leg entanglement to a 50-50 position still leg and still in the leg entanglement. From that 50-50 position, I'm able to separate his feet and actually get a few pops and he actually said I broke his foot in that exchange with the toe hold. The toe hold, yep. And you know, after after that, we had a bit more. I was just being working on top position, trying to get my bodylock, time runs out and we go to overtime and overtime. Can you hold on a second? Actually, what does it mean to break a leg? I was very confused about. Okay. So is this like an expression or what do you mean? What do you mean? What which part breaks in a toe hold? Okay. So in a toe hold, there's a few different grades of it. Like you could get a few pops and have some, have some, you know, walking issues. And people consider that a break. And then you could break it fully and have your foot be like a limp noodle. You know, I think what goes that Achilles, well, it's the front of the Achilles or something. I mean, probably the ligaments. I mean, it's funny. Like a lot of people say they broke something, but like to me, you break bones, you tear ligaments. So I would imagine you probably had a great three tear. Great three. How hard do you think is it? I was wondering that with like a straight footlock, how hard is it to break the shin or like the actual bones versus the terraced up? It depends how many steroids there are. And obviously how much you're a year one of the few guys that I haven't actually broken bones in competition. Yeah, have I? Oh, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, which bone did you break? Spiral fracture of the fibula. First, a lot of power. Because they get twist thing. How did you break it? Oh, it was a hill hook. Many, always just to say, hill hooks don't work. Leglux don't work. But unfortunately, age gets the best of all of us. I think he had some mileage on those ligaments. Yeah, and the bone, I guess. Yeah. So it's actually what the bone? Yeah, he's ankle like disconnected from the tibia and the fibula, but the fibula definitely snouts pretty bad. That's fascinating. The dynamics of that. Okay. Anyway, you wanted to over time. What happened over time? Okay. Oh, I happened over time. Let's see. Try not hang. Oh, okay. I go defense first. Wustle blows. I'm able to escape in like 17 seconds. And then immediately after I go on his back and he gets out in exactly 17 seconds. I'm like, shit. All right. I thought I had a good start. And then he gets on my back right after that. And he's able to ride me out for pretty much the entire round. After that, he's I go back on his back. He escapes and maybe like a minute and some change. I think where I went wrong at the overtime is I should have went. I should have been less adamant about chasing the submission and more aware of collecting time. If I kind of diverted my tension towards acquiring, you know, time on the clock, it would have been, you know, warm my favor. But yeah, at the end of my overtime round, I'm able to lock up a renegade choke over the face, but there just wasn't enough time to fully finish. You know, I got a few seconds of squeeze in there. I didn't have enough time to adjust. Then God, do you think if you're on steroids, you would have finished the choke? I mean, for sure, for sure. That's what I thought. If you're on gear, you're changing the biology of your body. You're adjusting your DNA. For sure, if I adjust in my DNA, I mean, it's a finish. So you're implying you're a natural athlete is what you say? Oh, I'm definitely natural athlete. Yeah. Heavy immigration. Okay. So for people who don't know that the B.I. rules, it's an interesting rules structure where the overtime, you put yourself in like the worst possible position and the task is to escape and the other person gets the same thing. What do you guys think about that rule set? I like it just because I, first of all, I don't, I don't like the idea of having to put somebody on my back, but I do like the definitive answer in the match. Like either you escaped in time or you got, you know, written out. So the absolutely, like you have a, you get to the final winner. That's great. And much rather have that than a close decision and kind of goes other way. What are you? I mean, honestly, there's all the different rules. When I look at the rules sets, I just try to think of what rules set. I could beat that individual in and I sort of give myself towards that. That's really the strategy there. I think there's some guys that like, uh, the stole a lot that you would love to have EBI overtime, but at the end, you know, they're stolen until they have to give us a good position. But then the some guys that are so good in those positions, I'm like, oh, maybe we just do a regular match, you know, what are the rules in the streets? The streets, no, it's on them. Yeah. That's one of it. There's also like concrete and cars, stuff, biting, biting. Yeah, poking. Yeah. So you don't like that rule set? Are there some people you would prefer in the street as a rule set? Me probably not. I don't know. The EBI, I mean, it's tricky. You know, it depends on the opponent, which rule set I'd want to do. Wow. What about you, Nick? What do you think about the rule set of EBI? Yeah. So I think EBI is is very good from a spectator point of view. You know, people find it very entertaining to watch, you know, because your people want to see submissions and you're putting people, you're putting the athletes in a position where, you know, you have like the highest percentage submission in the sport. So obviously you're going to get a lot of submissions. My issue with it is it is a rule set that allows somebody that's overall worse at Jiu Jitsu to win a match. You know, a guy can go out there and just stall and just get completely dominated for the entirety of regulation and then he gets to start on the guys back. So that's that's one my one issue with it. But also, I mean, it's interesting to see like the best people in the world have to be putting a really bad position and then to see how good their escape is off, for example. Yeah. It's interesting. But it doesn't feel like a realistic. It's a fun thing to watch, but it doesn't feel like the real fight. It feels weird. Oh, claim it. If I start an overtime on someone to finish them, oh, claim it. But if they submit me an overtime on last, you're going to know. Yeah. That's good. The issue is people like stalling to just win the overtime. So where you got this guy, his whole training camp is just not get subbed and win the overtime. It's a bit boring. By the way, I have a rose behind you. Somebody gave me a Valentine's flower. So if you if you missed the one from Gordon, I got one. Well, I'd appreciate that. It's good to feel loved. Yeah. All right. So what did you learn from that match? Like a takeaway is technically speaking. Like what what do you need to work on? Well, I learned that I am pretty good. Yeah, pretty good. I got a few I know exactly what my weakness is. You know, it's the leg lock department. And I'm doing I'm doing a lot to, to you know, get better in that specific aspect. I can defense attack. I would say yeah, attack defense reattacks. Even if I wanted to offensively enter a leg, you know, I could use some work there as well. But I feel like once I solidify like my like if I come and become a black belt, specifically in the leg lock department, I feel like I'd be unstoppable. If you Nicky rod definitively beat Gordon Ryan, how would you do it? Buggy choke. Bucky choke. Buggy choke. For the listener, I don't even know how to describe buggy choke. What's what's the definitive like conclusion on that choke? Does it work? It's a it's a choke that you do when you're in a, we'll see opposite of dominant. It's not submissive in a non-dominant position of bottom side control. Yeah, just embarrassing submission to get caught with really. Yeah, but does it work? It works on certain people. For the listener, he glanced over at Nicky. It's embarrassing, but it's also what is the way to frustrate the opponent. For sure. Yeah, it's a new part of the spot. I feel like the Ritola's brought it back into fashion. And even if you don't get it, because it's one of those moves that's so embarrassing, at the first sign of danger, the top guy abandoned ship. And you can basically retain God by attempting a very embarrassing. So the threat of embarrassment? Yeah, everybody. People pull out very quick to avoid suffering the consequences. I think some people underestimate how good of a submission is. I mean, once you're locked in there, there's not too many defenses for a buggy choke. Are you, is there an instruction on the way from you? And Jay Ride actually, a little brother has one. Oh yeah, for real, you actually legit have... Oh, wow. That's awesome. Let's check it out. I mean, there is, I mean, you're making a joke out of it, but it is a real, like, there's a system to it. I mean, yeah, I don't know if we're going to system it. It's a good move. I mean, you're taking a point that was just winning in a, in a, in a greatly dominant position. And then boom, in that same position, they're pretty much, they're losing. You know, it's, it's interesting move. What's the name of the, what's the name of it? It's called the buggy pdf, like Jay Ride raised. Okay, the buggy pdf, I thought there'd be something like very Craig Jonesy about it. Okay, awesome. I know you don't want to sort of reveal the secrets of what you're working on, but in general, dude, what does it take to beat Gordon, I guess. Okay, it would have to be some kind of choke. I think any joint lock or anything like that, he's just going to let it break and stay in the match. So I don't even think he tapped from like a, a renegade choke. I think I would have to put him to sleep. So putting him to sleep is a good one. So Gordon is somebody who really hates losing. Yeah, like he won't even tap in the, in the practice room. I remember like I had a toe hold a couple of times in practice room, and he was just comfortable like working there. I'm like, I'm not really putting much on it. I think he just, you know, maybe because of situations like that in practice, he kind of did respect my toe holds ability in, in competition. You've done that to me in the practice. I have, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I'll give you a little, you know, give me a little pup and then he let go. And I was just, I was only tapped for seven right there. Imagine. Hey, don't get it to mass. Okay, is there some part of that, you think is necessary to be a champion, is to like this almost unwillingness and competition to tap? I think it's definitely something to be said for people that are just like, you know, willing to go that extra mile or to take that damage to secure their, their victory. Is there a part of you that like would hate to tap or hates to tap? Yeah, I mean, all of me, I mean, what he did. Yeah, the whole part of me. Is there a John Legend song like that? All of you and all of me. Very romantic, yeah. Yeah, we're sticking on that theme. Okay, I'm sorry. Oh, one of the things Gordon asked, I forget how he put it because I think there's a lot of words that would need to be censored involved. But he said, ask them how it feels to have a zero five record against me with four submissions combined. I mean, first of all, I wasn't sure he could count to five. Yeah, that's an impressive thing. Pressing. Oh, and five. I mean, I always say one thing. Nobody beats me four times. I love you so much. Lex, I did have a question. I did have a question for you. There was some controversy on your Twitter about a list of books. Yeah. And I was wondering why Gordon's book wasn't featured amongst that literature. Well, it was only the first 30 books or like the first 20 books. And it would of course be in something interesting about Gordon. He's the first author that's written more books than he's read. Pretty good. If you if you face them and beat them, what's your take on what it takes to be Gordon? I mean, you guys kind of joke and they go pretty pretty hard recently on each other. But as a fan of Jiu-Jitsu, I'm all in on this rivalry. It's just fun to watch. I mean, first of all, I don't think I go really hard with him. I think Gordon is pretty sensitive. You know what I mean? He's looking for a large insult in a small insult. And for me, like Australians, we just attack each other all day every day. And for me, like, if I see someone that takes himself very seriously, that's like blood in the water. That's funny to me. To me, if I can just gently provoke and get a strong reaction, that's hilarious. Like, Aussies, we would just attack each other. And the first person that gets upset, he kind of loses the exchange. So I think that is very, very entertaining. Like if you were to beat Gordon, would the mental game off the map be part of it? I think it would be a fact of a show, but I mean, I'm never going to come out too crazy direct with him. I find that, like, if you get too upset on the line and you go and crazy, I find that I'd be embarrassed to do that myself. Obviously, each everyone's different. Everyone has a different style. But like, yeah, I think mental, the mental aspect would play a big factor. I mean, mainly because if I were to beat him, I would send him a message every day until I died, just to gently remind him that I got the last one. The last one is all that matters. We're not giving it back. Yeah, we're not giving it. Go ahead. So like once you beat him, you're going to run for the rest of your life. I mean, run, but look back. Yeah. Yeah, with messages. Ride your horse into the sunset. Okay. Oh, by the way, you've talked very lightly. You've talked shit very lightly against Alexander Volkanovsky's opponent very lightly. Have you received death threats or how are you still alive? Like Gordon, I would say people from Dagestan of take a joke very well. Do they really? No. I like more. Oh, sorry. Now I'll just do aggressive motor in my head. Now, honestly, Islam was pretty cool. I wanted to stir it up a bit, you know, because like I felt like that was a massive fight. And I probably should have had more attention than it was receiving. So I wanted to just gently stir it up a bit. I feel like Sambo guys are in the same vein as catch wrestlers. Very sensitive, you know, like obviously there's only three people in the world that do catch wrestling. Sambo, maybe 10 to 15. So I figured we could really provoke down with that sort of jiu-jitsu Sambo stuff. Islam took the jokes very well. The Russian fans, not so much a very serious. There's not many smiles in Russia, you know. They didn't take it as well. I'm trying to suppress the anger. The rage is building on the side. Slowly. So you guys mentioned steroids. I like that you bring that up after we talk about Russia for the right now. I'm not condone the statements said by the Aussie. Like, but I would love to travel with you to Russia. That would be a good time. Yeah. You might get killed with me now. No, I would be like the first to turn to back stab you. Like I got even getting. All right. Are most of the top grapplers on steroids? I mean, it's hard to say. You know, some people look like shits and they're on steroids. Some people look excellent and they're not on steroids. It's so, so hard to tell. Well, that seems to be the general consensus that a lot of people on steroids. I'm always a little bit, I don't know. So, be honest, I've never seen anyone take steroids. I've never taken steroids. I don't even know if that's the right term to use or like, TRT, any of that. So, I'm very careful to not let my naive, fatte, lead me to take conclusions. But I do feel a little bit weird about the witch hunt nature of it. Some people a little bit too eagerly claim that other genres steroids, just because they're successful. But at the same time, it does seem that a lot of athletes will do whatever it takes to be successful. Yeah, I mean, if a sport doesn't test, you've got to assume most people are going to do it. And especially now, as more money comes into the sport, you've got to assume more people are going to do it. I generally do ACC and does just to test. It's actually encouraged. What's encouraged? You get a pamphlet? Okay. They don't test. There's no test. They test to make sure we're on steroids because obviously it's a big show for the UFC Five Pants in the future. You don't want anyone coming in out of shape. Do you think using steroids in that kind of context and sports is wrong? Like stepping away. If it's not illegal, from what I'm expecting. I mean, do you think I'm speaking? I like to assume everyone's on steroids and I have to feel bad about using steroids myself. Do you use all of the steroids? I'm over 30, it's DRD. You know, that's a medical definition. That's the medical, okay. Like to meet your doctor. Therapy to use, you know? They're therapeutic. Right. Like how do you just feel about it? I mean, it is cheating for sure. Whether they test for it or not, I think it is cheating. Obviously some people are going to say, oh, if I get everyone's on it, I should be able to get away with it. It makes it even playing field. You know, but it kind of becomes rushed from relax because it's like, if one guy is taking a small amount, and the other guy is taking a huge amount, he's going to reap huge rewards in the short time. Probably be dead pretty early, but diet champion, mind you. You know what I mean? So it's like, I don't know what the line is. Yeah. Yeah, what do you think about that? Do you think it's worthy to take health risks? I think if you're just for the glory. I think if you're 40 about to die looking at a cabinet of gold medals for wrestling other men, it's probably not going to hit the same way on your deathbed, you know? Sorry, in which direction? Like is that a good thing or not? No, you're probably going to feel like, oh, fuck, I probably wasted a bit of health on that, you know? You think so? Isn't that like the glory of it? Like you said, other men. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, it might be, you know, maybe rest of a woman as well. What'd you do with Gabby on Valentine's Day? What did you take her? Did you guys? We filmed some new stuff for only fans. For only fans. We never stopped working. So the love of fair is also a work affair. Okay. I don't know. I, I, there's something to that me like, like Olympic gold medalist accomplishing like the heights, the sacrificing everything, just everything, the first 20 or 30 years of your life for this silly little piece of metal. I think there's something beautiful to that. That's that inspires a lot, a lot of people. And that's like the height of the human condition in a way. Like, what a piece of life. I'm just saying if you're in your deathbed early in life, we all die. All men die. But not all men truly live. How many years apart? How many years that you willing to shave off for a gold medal? That's a good question. How many? How many are you willing to shave off for a gold medal? What year for silver medal? For silver. I mean, for silver medal, I'd shave a few off. I think two silver's makes it gold. Just worth five years. Five to ten, maybe, uh, shave off the bad news and haunts the good ones, you know? Well, I mean, you've sacrificed. You guys sacrificed a lot. A lot of your life. You continue sacrifice. You don't see the sacrifice. It's fun. I think training is fun being adamant about it. Consistent. Gives you, I mean, I think we have a great routine, great ritual. Definitely enjoy the process. All right. Well, do you guys know this is bro science or I'm talking bro sciences, but do you know how long stay with staying in your system? Forever. Forever. Oh, because it's like, hey, once you do it, y'all in it. Yeah. Just the knowledge. Yeah. All right. I think it's different for each steroid, right? I think some of them last longer than others. It depends if it's a urine. You would think I would do a little research before this asking these questions. Why do you think most athletes and coaches don't talk about steroids? Like, why is it such a like a secret? Why is it so embarrassing? I think they probably talk about it like amongst the team and what not. Again, I mean, it's only it's going to be more shady if it's like a your sport is tested or not or kind of in the wild west and the grappling world, you know. Yeah, but why don't grapplers talk about it? Because it's in its cheating. I mean, it's kind of insinuated as a bit of cheating, even if it's not like if it's not tested, I mean, still you're taking a person that could, you know, maybe has good your ginseng good mechanics, you're putting them on the leg and they're solving with a hill hook versus breaking your leg with a hill hook. You know, something as subtle as that can make, you know, big differences. All right, this is going to make me sound dumb, but is it possible that steroids are not a huge help in grappling? I think if you're bad at jujitsu and you do steroids, you're going to continue to be bad at jujitsu. But if you're great at gear, I'm sorry, if you're great at grappling, if you're great at grappling and then you also do gear, it's going to enhance what you're already, you know, good at and make you much better. But like, how much is the enhancement? I guess that's the question. How much is muscle valued? Right. If you're a question, if you're doing gear and you're not changing weight that much, like maybe it helps you a little bit, but if you're gaining 50, 60 pounds of pure muscle and it's like, that's a huge enhancement. That's another human. Does muscle, a small human, yeah? Does muscle matter in jujitsu? I guess it's the question. Is it possible that it gets in the way? I'd say muscle matters, but technique matters more. I also think that it will help you develop technique as well, because obviously, testosterone helps with recovery rate. So if you're on gear, you're able to train a lot more. Now, with that being said, if you're not able to learn, obviously, it's not going to help in that aspect. But if you're somebody that knows how to learn and get good at jujitsu, and then you add gear on top of that, you're able to do significantly more sessions throughout the week. Okay. And by the way, gears, there is that right. Yeah. Okay. I also think that you don't have to be as consistent in like your sleep and your food and stuff. If you're on gear, you have a little bit of leeway. But I mean, being consistent in your diet and your sleep definitely would help the process. Since you use most steroids of any athlete I've ever met, do you think steroids help jujitsu? I think obviously it helps recovery and your ability to train more. But I've seen some guys go on steroids, and then suddenly they feel like the incredible Hulk. And now in the training room, they start to rely more on strength than the techniques they had. And actually in some respect, hinders them and makes them gas more in competition. Because then they're using more of the muscle they never used to have. So you've implied that you're a natural athlete. You said that. You said that skeptic. How do you skeptical? Is this something you do for social media to talk yet to Gordon to imply that he's not a natural athlete? Well, I only pretty much recently on social media had this rebuttal, you know, saying that Gordon's on gear. And I only said that because after our match in our most recent match, the EBI rules match, he accused me of greasing, which is like you're looming up. So I'm slippery during our match. And you did not. I did not. I was checked multiple times before and after our grappling event. And he still went out and accused me of this. So I was like, all right, I was supposed to tell him a lie. I just told the truth about your steroid use. Which shouldn't be that big of a deal in retrospect because he kind of admitted it and whatnot previously. So it's, yeah, I just kind of felt like I had to rebuttal. And I didn't do it immediately because I was like, all right, I know I have this podcast plan. So I'll wait to do it on my friend Mark Bell's podcast, you know, be a little more, more, get a little bit more exposure on it. And yeah, I knew he was going to bite the bait, but I didn't think he was going to, you know, bite the bait that hard. I know he's a little stressed out about about the comment, but, you know, and that was the origin of you guys going back and forth on. Well, it wasn't so much back and forth. It was just I went forth and then he kept going back, back, back. I remember one of my guys, the enemy and they were like, Gordon's made like 68 Instagram stories and 67 of them were all about you. I'm in his head for sure. Got us a few followers. We appreciate it. We did. We did get followers, even shout out our B team Whiteball program. So thank you. Okay, speaking of which, what's the B team? How's it run? And why is it called the B team? Was the E team taking for me? B's for best. Okay. Best. All right. What does B stand for for you? What is the represent? What is the ideal like the, you know, Miyamoto Masashi philosophical foundation of B team? Aim low and achieve. If the bar is set low, you can't help, but win. Okay. That's Nikki's philosophy with women as well. Set the bar incredibly low. Overachieve. So what, what is the B team? How do you guys run it? Like what, yeah, I mean, can you just talk about the school? How you found it? What, what, what, what is it? What's it like? I mean, Ben, pretty much just a regular jujitsu gym. We started as sort of a pro's only people bone above team. And we have me, Nicky Rod, Nicky Rod, Ethan Damian as coaches. Am I missing someone? Oh, JB. You remember the old age. I'm back up with memory. Yeah. And we got JB coming up to teach white belts. But just just stock standard jujitsu team. We focus on more, we lean heavily towards the professional athlete. So how do things? We have a lot of high level guys in there. Cloud structure, regular instruction and positional sparring. Open rounds. But we sort of took a heavy slot on marketing side of things. We really try to blow up the YouTube channel. Obviously we sell a lot of clothing, merchandise and stuff. So yeah, we just sort of took a modern approach to a standard jujitsu gym. Because I mean, jujitsu gym is a full of some of them is boring human beings on earth. So we try to highlight. Don't worry, it's great, Jim. Highlight, the other side of things. You know, keep it pretty light-hearted. Then it can be fun. Yeah, that jujitsu can be fun. I guess it can be cool too. You know, that's not just full of steroided up autistic people, you know? Question from Reddit. Quote, need to hear some of the stories about droppings that led to the making of the gem of a video, the do's and don'ts of training a beat him. Any fun stories? Anyone that stands out? Do you guys remember any? Police involved ever? We had a guy coming back to kick him out. He was stalking two of the members. Yeah, well, I mean, that's just crazy people. You know, like, I portray a pretty insane image online. And I guess I am that a lot of the time, but I'd training try to keep it while training. Around training, I'm insulting everyone, but while training, I try to keep it pretty serious. Obviously, the image of a trait looses in some of the crazy members. I mean, like, the thing is about the, the Jimmy Guy's Ron is really professional. It's like, friendly. It's like, the light harder joking is there. Obviously, the, you know, like shit talking all that kind of stuff. But like, it's a pretty safe environment. Yeah, but the public persona might attract some. Some maniacs. I once said which places up trainer, but it's obviously some places you walk into the room. And it's very, very serious. There's no smiles around. Obviously, it's probably average training room in Russia, but no smiles. Very serious environment. You know what I mean? And I definitely don't like that. I don't want to show up to training. Be walking on eggshells. No one knows where the coach is. Moods like that day. I want to go in and have a good time. Keep it light-hearted. What was in the video? What are the do's and don'ts? Because like, the address is public. Like, anyone can show up. Anyone can show up. Yeah, what would the do's and don'ts? Does anyone challenge you like to fight? Not yet. Not yet. I mean, probably from other gyms in town, they probably, that's probably coming down the line. But do's and don'ts. I'm all in on that. I would be excited as a fan to just watch. I love the drama. Not the drama. No, no, no. Well, a little drama, a little drama, a poison is good. But ultimately, the best grapplers in the world kind of going at it. Yeah, it's fun. Because I may be I'm wrong, but I think there is an underlying deep camaraderie at the end of the day when you're like at the top of the world. And you're like in the same town. What could possibly go wrong? It's like a shitty western, but like an epic western. Well, like, like, he's like the good, the bad and ugly. Of course, I love it. I'm here just eating popcorn like that. Stay here in the pot. I'm not staying in the pot. I'm not staying in the pot. These questions are from Reddit. I'm not saying that. Well, that one for sure. Yeah, I mean, what could possibly go wrong if you're the world's best grappler hates you and you're gently provoking in behind the scenes every day? Well, I mean, for sure. In Texas. And you stolen his brother, how did he answer? Yeah, it's like a story of a shitty western, I think. You know, a lot of white belts to train with you. What's the like to open it up to a bigger audience? We haven't opened it up yet, but it'll be interesting to see. I mean, I feel like your high belts, they really understand what the training room is. You know, to me, white belts early, they're trying to find their place in the gym could be kind of awkward. And stuff in that environment. So I think obviously those white belts coming in will change the dynamic, but the white belts will have a separate white belt class as obviously for them. Because given it such a high level gym, it'd be tough a beginner to be able to enter the more advanced classes, obviously, where teaching more advanced techniques. So yeah, we've separated a white belt program, I believe 6 p.m. One bit of Friday. Yeah, maybe we'll have a Saturday one as well. But it would be interesting to see how it goes. We're trying to do things different. You know, like trying to do your traditional judicity gyms obviously, you're not going to teach beginners wrestling. It'll we're trying to split at least 33% top game, bottom game, and wrestling. So at least create more well-rounded athletes from day one. Whereas I feel like most traditional judicity gyms might have no ghee once a week, that'll touch wrestling, very IBGF heavy techniques, but again, the sports changing for sure. Just to take that on, how does the beginner get good at judicity? Like given the starting this white belt, what's your philosophy on that? Obviously, buy all of my instructions at full price, not doing a sale. Okay. That would go a long way. For those of you who are Russian, I'll send you instructions for all the forms of how to steal it. Yeah, just can't share it. I bought them all, so I'll just send it to you for a bit. We do have the Maca-Chef 50 discount code, you know? Yeah. Offering discounts to help him out for the rematch. I got the... Nice. I got the Maca-Chef discount. Well, I got 100% discount for you if you need it. But that's like your instruction, are both hilarious and brilliant. And it's one of the most respected instructions. Oh, thank you. They're with incredibly great names. Yeah, it probably loses me, Salis. Honestly, due to removing the seriousness of the training. I'll tell you what they think is going to kind of suck. Is it going to be some funny gimmicky thing? Oh, I mean, somebody will don't even know if it's a real product. That's a big hurdle after overcomers. They see it and they're like, is that a real thing? That's a problem. But how does the wipeout get good? I think they just have to show up. Just have to put in the effort, try to focus on using techniques in training, rather than just fighting to the death, you know? Although that is entertaining for us to watch. Two wipeouts, fight to the death. Yeah, but what are the techniques you should focus on? Like, what's the process? What does it mean to show up? Like how much drilling, all that kind of stuff? Like, if you were to optimize the first six months of a beginner, there's a lot of people who would listen to this and haven't tried them. I'm curious. I have a lot of friends who are like, you're just so curious. They're constantly looking for an excuse to start. I think it's just got to be as simple as possible. You know, like, we shouldn't be teaching more advanced movements. I mean, obviously in the grand scheme of things, this highly advanced techniques, and then this slightly advanced. And I think trying to teach those guys real specific positions even, like, real specific types of guard is just beyond them. I think the best way to learn is through problem solving. And I think if you show the technique before they discovered that problem, the learning is sort of held back. So I like the idea of using kid style games to show them a problem and then use the techniques to fix the problems they've just discovered. I think that's the best way to learn. Can you give an example of a problem to show them before you give them the techniques? Like, what are we talking about? All right, so say you wanted to teach posture and wrestling. You could create a game where one guy, the game might be get to a leg or get to two legs, control the leg, like super simple. But the rules, the constraint would be one guy is forced to keep our prep posture. And one guy is forced, will not force, but he's allowed to keep a bent at the hips, lower posture. And obviously within that constraint, the guy with the better posture is going to have more success. He's going to have a better posture to secure a leg or secure both legs. And therefore you've demonstrated the flaws of bad posture without having to explain it to him before they really tested that out. Okay, and then the result of that, you would realize that the bent over posture is better. Yeah, you have that aha moment rather than just being, having it spoken to you. You wrote Craig, I'm a big fan of constraint-based learning. I guess it was just what you're talking about. I love presenting beginners with a problem before the solution, like here, attempt to hold side-control with no cues on how. Then I see how the guy got out and addressed issue by issue, cross-face and hip control and so on. Okay, so what are some other examples like side-control? Yeah, that would be excellent one, side-control. Like teach it, like obviously we say, oh, you secure a cross-face so they can't turn into you. Much easier to have them try to hold someone down without explaining what a cross-face is. And then use that technique to address the problem. They've just encountered. So I think you could do that with a lot of areas of judicity, like even more advanced, say 50-50, obviously a mirrored position where you both have access to each other's heels. Most people will stall out of that position and keep their feet crossed. I think a great constraint for both of them, you can't cross your feet. Now you have to learn how to slip the heel hook when they expose it and how to safely re-attack of your own, so the constraint is you can't be too defensive in that position. And I think the rate of learning increases. Why do you think the rate of learning increases? Like, why do you think that works? Because you can count a more problem. Say in that situation, they're going to get you heel a lot more in whatever period of time you allocate the drill for than if the legs across. I don't think the hard parts splitting the legs to get to the submission. I think the hard parts practicing control while they're trying to slip it at the latest stage. And then obviously trying to slip your heel when you're in more danger. Also makes you more comfortable in that bad position. If you used to doing it with open legs. Yeah, I think that probably that style of teaching forces people to focus on. This is so easy to fall into focusing on like memorizing a particular details of a technique without thinking like, why the hell does this even work? And if you don't have that, you get to focus on like, from like, it's cliche as it sounds. From first principles like, why the hell, how the hell do I get out of this? Like, why does this even work? Why does the rest thing work? Why do you have a bent over posture? You get those like, start to ask those kinds of questions. Which is kind of interesting because it's not obvious to me that bent over posture is the right posture for jiu-jitsu, right? I'm confused actually about that. I don't know. About the correct posture? Yeah, for jiu-jitsu. Like, what's the right answer? I think bent over posture is still good for jiu-jitsu. Even with the judo and all that. Like, why are so many jiu-jitsu people like at a high level, the posture is higher up? Well, I think the wrestling posture is just a bit too low because it's not necessary, right? If wrestlers are low enough to the ground where your hands could touch them at, but in jiu-jitsu, it's kind of a mix between wrestling and jiu-jitsu or Gregor Roman wrestling. So I think it's just a bit more relaxed than it's bent over, but it's not upright, and it's also not super low. A bit more room for air at two because obviously the jiu-jitsu guys shot isn't going to be as athletic as quick as the wrestlers, especially wrestlers shoes. So it actually comes down to the fact that jiu-jitsu people just on average, even at the top level, are not good at shooting? I think so. I think obviously, I mean, all the wrestlers in American stuff, they're starting super early, super young. You know what I mean? They've, by the time they get to the same age, we are really in our sport and stuff, they've spent much longer doing the actual sport and the average jiu-jitsu guys. And then there's another level of wrestling, of course, with the Soviet block. That's just unachievable for your kind. Who knew, and a shalean, rugby? Yeah. I form a rugby player. Rugby? Is that kind of like American football, but much less money? Is that what that is? Much less money, much tougher, I would say. But who knew that the kiu-a, to the daggest andi wrestling, what are the Aussies? What are the Aussies? Okay, let's go there. Your friend, your training partner, Alexander Volkanovsky, you helped him prepare for the Islam Makachev versus Volkanovsky fight. Who do you think, first of all, won that fight? That's a tricky one. How is that the tricky question? I will say, when? When I was a shit talk, you've been doing. How is that the tricky question? When I was in the corner going into the fifth, I personally believed, live, that Volkanovsky probably needed a finish to take the victory. But you have to think that way, right? In general, or you, like, legitimately? It's a gray area, because the judging, who knows? Plus, I was like, where we're in Australia, was this bias? You know, because some Australian judges here. I was really hoping we could get better bias on that. Unfortunately not, hopefully they lose their jobs. But again, yeah, it was a close fight. I think sometimes you're blinded in the moment, because again, everyone counted Volkanovsky out. The crowds behind him say, everything he does is going to get a huge cheer. You bias towards the smaller guy. You bias towards the underdog. So you sort of, whatever the underdog does, has a bigger impact in your mind. And sometimes I can bias as the fight goes along. But yeah, super, super close fight. I would really love them to have a rematch. But obviously that's going to hold up both divisions. So I don't know if they'll be able to do it. Do you think they'll do a rematch soon? I mean, that was an epic fight. I was listening to the fight companion during the... They will thought Volkanovsky. So they biased strongly the opinion? Round two was the tricky one. Yeah. Round two was the tricky one. Anyway, I'd love to see that run it back and do three, actually. There's an epic fight. What was the brief conversation you had with Islam Makachau and his team? I didn't know who would take the joke. Because obviously he could be tried to flying Eagle Kick, Dylan Dennis in the face. So I wasn't sure how my humor would go. But Dylan must have said some worse things to me. I was just playing around. I mean, he can't really take anything I say serious. Come across like an idiot. But so when he was coming up to me afterwards, I was like, oh, I don't know what he's going to say. And again, maybe he would have been more upset if he had lost. But he just received the judge's decision. But he came up. I went to check. He said he'd give me a big hug and then pretended to throw me. And then I thought the interaction was over and then he circled back. That's why I was so awkward. I was like, oh, he's coming back. He wants to say he wants to help the nurse. But he just said, why didn't you teach your boy out escape the body triangle? Oh, wow. Interesting. What did you say to that? I said, well, I mean, obviously you've got to learn how to finish a reenacted joke. Is that what you said? No, I didn't say. I was just laughing. I was laughing. But then they all should have said that would like get out of me before the Aussie crowd attacks here, you know? What do you think about the body triangle position they were in? It seemed like for the first time, it seemed as almost like Valk was Yeah, the dominant in that position, which is kind of weird. I mean, damage is meant to trump control. MMA judging. Damage is the number one factor. Do you think the judges saw that? What do they score that as? I think they all scored four towards Islam. Three and five, two of the judges scored towards Valks. One of the judges scored three. For Islam. One of the guys was 49-46 for one of them and the other ones were 48-47. And I think the, again, the confusion around was around too. I don't think anyone scored the body triangle around for Valks, which I wish they had. Volkanowski was and is still arguably pumped for pumped greatest fighter in the world. How long have you known him? I don't know the first time. I met him before he was in the UFC when I used to live in Melbourne. He came down to train it absolute. Yeah. And then we really connected on Ultima Fighter. He, one of these guys who's going to bring to Ultima Fighter, Brad Bradale pulled out last second. So he called me when I was in Puerto Rico. And he's like, do you want to coach on tough for five weeks? And like I said, Puerto Rico was a apocalypse now. I was like, yeah, get me out of here. So I jumped on that opportunity and we were in Vegas five weeks together. Because he was meant to fight or tag. And then he got hit with COVID real bad. Got stuck in, I think he was in hospital for maybe once or two weeks. And then before he flew back to Australia, they were like, all right, maybe we just do you guys as the Ultima Fighter coach. So I jumped on board with that. And that's really when we become close. Obviously, I was useful in the Otago fight, helping get out of submissions. He fought in Korean zombie Max Holloway. I basically just held the bucket at that point in the corner, couple striking fights. And then again, yeah, we had to tackle the Islam problem. So I did spend five to six weeks down there preparing for that. How did you tackle the Islam problem? How do I tackle? You, somebody who barely knows anything about wrestling, having to help. Obviously, it doesn't take much, you know? Especially wrestling wrestling. Did the beard help? Or like what? Like in all seriousness, what were some of the key ideas that you worked on with Volkanowski to prepare for it? I had to help a Frank Hickman. Hickman was down there too. One of the Hickman brothers resting coach. So we was sort of like problem solving. I mean, basically, we were confident in Volk's fence wrestling. His cage work. He's super good on the cage, super like under-respected in that position. And we knew that if you were able to take the scrambles to the cage, he would be effective against Islam. Because again, Islam is background of Sanbo freestyle wrestling. But I mean, honestly, he's probably got the same experience on the cage as Volk's. Obviously, some of those wrestling skills will translate very well to the cage. But the cage is still somewhat of a gray area and equalizer. And Volk's again, incredible ability to stand up. Incredible defense on the cage, which you saw. We worked on strategies to get up. And a ton of submission defense. Islam loves Camuras. Obviously, Reneke from the back. Ambas. Those are sort of, and I'm trying to say, dominant submissions. But again, the guys he submitted, not grapplers. Apart from Charles Olivera, and again, Charles Olivera was basically knocked out at that point. So I was still impressively submitted him. But again, I always told people this. They thought it was crazy. I was like, Charles Olivera versus Islam at a grappling match. Olivera is going to win that match. Like submission grappling. Submission grappling. Yeah. So if you're grappling skill set, I think Olivera is a more dangerous grappler. So we didn't even come into it thinking Islam is this unstoppable boogie man that people make him out to be. So we approach her from that. Just focus on the techniques. Ability to get back up using turtle to get back up, using turtle to scoot to the cage to get back up and handfighting from there, keeping it pretty safe. But what makes folks so special, I think is his gas tank. Gas tank and his willpower. He's just unbreakable. The daggestani guys could be Islam. They are good at submissions. But they break guys mentally and they fatigue him. And then they take the submission that's offered. Olivera is a guy that can jump on submissions and have an incredible technical ability to finish those submissions, whether you're fresh or you're tired. And then you combine that with Volkanowski, who incredible willpower never gets tired. You're never going to break him. And as you saw, he only attempted one submission in the whole fire. Is that learned? Is that trained? Or are you just born with that mental toughness? It's a good question. I mean, he's like an anomaly. Like the entire fight camp, not nervous at all, supremely confident. The whole fire week, completely confident. He just has an attitude like, oh, everyone cast me out, we'll see. You know what I mean? Islam. He's like, let's see. No doubt. No doubt. Adel super relax. Up until about five minutes before. And then he starts stamping himself up. He's like, you are not taking this bell from my family. He gets into that sort of mindset. He actually says that out loud. You can't teach that survival. He didn't even take a fight. Have you guys ever been like pushed to the limit like that or broken in a grappling match? I'll do it in practice. Like I'll push myself to like, I don't think my pass out or die or something. Like as far as like, how tired you get, you know, because like in a match, they try not to ever get close to that in a match. Yeah, you try to, because you know, it's important to understand where your exhaust, the exhaustion point is. But yeah, if you have to push to that limit, a match you probably do doing something wrong. Like if you see in matches where guys sprint the last minute, they try to win the match in the last minute. And it's like, you definitely had some mistakes leading up to that if you have to, you know, go and go bolster wall. Okay, but has there been ever times in competition, especially like early on, because you're like, you wrestled pretty hard and wrestling is pretty exhausting. Like not wrestling, but you know, wrestling style kind of thing going against the best people in the world. Yeah, I mean, I definitely, again, I think I think in practice is important to do that hard work that where competition is as much easier. You know, I think if you, if you red line in practice and you, you really pushed it like death store, then once you're in competition and you're working with, you know, you're being fresh in a comp of it's much better. Have you ever been to that thing where Dan Gabel talks about always wanting to be to a place where you can't get off the mat? Like you work so hard in the training room, you can't get off the mat. I think he says he's failed at that in his career. He was always able to at least crawl off the mat. Yeah, I definitely never like actually died on the mat. I felt like I was putting the high, you know, sure, sure. What about you, Duke, what all the time? I get a lot cramp. I'm like, you know what, you got me, my, let's do this against the bar. But if I'm accent Craig for a role, he's in the bathroom somewhere. Do you do you see the value of pushing yourself like to that place where you're knocking on death store? Yeah, but it within safety, you know, because obviously the most serious injuries occur when you're tired of training and stuff like that. So I think like taking a page out of what those MMA fighters do, especially Valks with his training, like he's not necessarily pushing crazy in each round, but he's doing extra conditioning assault black stuff, crazy workouts outside. And he does do some crazy training workouts, but all safe, very safe. When he's redlining like that in the training room, it's a very controlled safe setting. I think to do that in Jiu-Jitsu, I guess some of these lunatics out there that are trying to kill you, especially when you have a name, can be dangerous. So you're approaching Jiu-Jitsu's, don't warm up and don't try too hard. Not for safety, no for safety. Yeah, longevity, you know. And talk shit about Russians. I got it. I got it. I hear you. Oh, you mentioned cage work. What's interesting to you that you learned over all this time about cage work? What's interesting about the dynamics of that? Are you talking about both the control in the dominant position, but also getting up from the bottom while you're at the gist of cage, all of that? The added dimension of that cage, that wool being there, changes a lot of stuff right. So obviously, in some ways, it's a much lower impact wrestling style because you can't be spiraled on. You can shoot the cage is going to block their feet. You're going to be able to chase down their hips. It's just a completely different fight. And again, because of Islam's judo skills, that upper body controls you. See, he's able to use against the cage, like the inside trips, sort of the Uchi moda style, or I go she throws. So obviously those skills do translate, but yeah, I think the cage is a great equalizer for a lot of things like athleticism and stuff. It takes away a huge speed advantage, or aspects of the fight. So he's really good at standing up. What is there? I assume he learned all that from you and your instructional just stand up. I mean, we were so confident. I was like, you know what? Why don't we put this thing out a month before the fight? Yeah. Maybe the illegal download hasn't made its way to Russia yet, but it was there for him. Can you explain to me what's in the instructional just stand up? Like what are the ideas? What do you, I mean, the old school way to stand up, people talk about the technical get up. You know, the old Gracie put the hand, but I mean, that's, that doesn't work for 20 years. You know, if you look at everyone that gets up at MMA, they're using turtle to get up, they're using wrestling to get up. You know what I mean? Yeah. Which is counter to what Pueh Jiu Jitsu says. They say don't expose the back. Don't ever expose your back. I think Jiu Jitsu is a terrible way to get back to the feet. Because if you were to retain God and go half God or close God, super-hot positions to get up. You're basically putting yourself in a leg tuck for wrestling. So I think you need a borrow from wrestling to learn how to get up in an MMA fire. So basically how to safely expose your own back while not allowing them to get hooks and use that to get back up or at least not allow them to get two hooks. And that applies for MMA especially. For MMA especially because obviously, uh, striking is a factor. But if they are striking, they don't have locked hands around your body. Means you are able to move. You are able to make an attempt to get back up. They have to choose between control, submission or strikes. Post from Reddit, why does Craig Jones push so hard for a bottom is bad Jiu Jitsu? What is so bad about playing bottom guards is just half-guarded Della. Those are the two options. No one likes a bottom. Why would I want to get up? It's the question for all of you. Is the bottom a bad place to be? I mean the bottom is bad if you don't want that gone top here. That's why I look at it. You know? That sounds like something a cowboy would say. I don't know if that's much meaning. I think the point of Jiu Jitsu is both are dangerous being on bottom and on top. I think the longer the match is probably the favorite top guy more. Just because every movement the bottom guy makes is probably carrying your weight, carrying that gravity on top of you. So I think it's a bit more efficient passing from the top as opposed to sweeping from bottom. Bottom is reactive. Top is active. The top play decides how to engage, how to approach the guard that can use angles, second use footwork that can throw people, throw the legs by. So it's an active position. Bottom is reactive. Reactive. You're going to get fatigued. Yeah. I think it's very difficult to gas somebody out while playing guard, but I think it's very easy to gas somebody out when attempting to pass it. Well, you guys are talking about gasing people out, but is there more dangers from the bottom, like in terms of submissions and all that kind of stuff or no? I'm back and forth because I'm a top player, but I understand the value of being on bottom. Like when I do play guard, the bottom, I feel like the submissions come much easier. And when I'm on top, they come also pretty easy, but maybe I just think a different route. Top on cobwears. Top on the straights, bottom in the shade, sesame. What was the hardest part of the training for the training camp for Volkanowski? Like you're just experiencing world class MMA fighters training. And giving your approach to digits of not trying to harden no matter what. Yeah, yeah. I mean, from my perspective, there's a lot of pressure for that. You know, like that's a, that's a lot of pressure for me to go in and think that I could possibly figure out a way to help this guy address this guy that's basically never been beaten. I think he got knocked out once, but basically not really even been put in bad positions. You know what I mean? That's a lot of pressure on me, especially because Volkanowski's such a great guy. Yeah. Digits who's different, you know, like your coach, a guy loses, he has time to tap. But it never makes it gets severely hurt. Yeah. There's a lot more weight in what you need to do as a coach. You have a greater sense of responsibility to their health and well-being. You know, like obviously I know folks, kids, I know his wife. You know what I mean? They're putting faith in you. So not just win the fight, but keep this man safe. You know, so from my perspective, a hell of a lot more pressure, coaching him as an MMA fighter. So almost like the psychological aspect of like, of doing the best you can for him. Exactly, yeah, yeah. What was the hardest about the actual training? Was it the technical aspect of trying to figure out the puzzle of Islam, or was it like being a good training partner in the, in the, like, in figuring out how the grappling would work, basically playing your best impression in my coach. Were you trying to actually impersonate him? Like, not, not just visually, but like in style. Yeah, yeah, definitely, definitely visually. You're not as good looking, but go ahead. Yeah, a little doula, but no, in terms of the training, yeah, I mean, Islam's known as incredibly strong guys. So obviously I'm heavier than Islam. So theoretically, I should be able to replicate that strength difference. And then in terms of grappling, targeting those submissions that Islam does, like focusing on those in the training room, focusing on the way he holds half-guard. And really, in the grappling sense, trying to replicate him on the ground. And then yeah, I wrestle with him on the wall, a ton, trying to replicate, obviously, to the best of my ability. A lot of the stuff he does on the wall, body look heavy, inside trip, Uchi-Mata's, and just constantly put in the work on Valks. You know what I mean? Like constantly chaining attacks against him. Really replicate that. As he's trying to get up and just keep and all that kind of stuff. So also, the submission, like both judo and submissions, just attacking attacking. Exactly. And there's only so much you can do, really, because obviously he's been, I think he's been fighting a long time. So it's like, you're trying to polish what he already is good at. You can't just completely create and tiling your game for him in the space of six weeks. So you're trying to take what he's already effective at, add to it. And luckily, a lot of the stuff he's already very good at was easy to add to for the, for the fight. Question from Reddit. I'm very curious why other MMA fighters don't employ high profile grapplers from B-Team and New Wave to improve their grappling. By now, it's clear that they are levels above almost everyone in MMA, simply because fighters there don't specialize in grappling. But it doesn't seem like fighters, even champions, get training partners from the most successful teams. Why is that the case? From your experience, why doesn't it could be called you? You might now. Putting a good word for me. Oh, I will. That's right. He takes a joke pretty well. Yeah. No, no, you'll be walking with open arms. I think your average, you just a coach, MMA fighters have bad experience with you, you just a guy's, you just see doesn't have a massive play, so MMA obviously rounds, standups, it's hard to submit people. Your average, presumably, you just do black belt, doesn't know anything about holding a guy down, doesn't know anything about how to stand up. Sure. So I think if you overly, overly utilize that, you just a guy that hasn't had experience in more modern, no, ghee or training MMA fighters previously, it's going to be a complete waste of time to them. I think they're smart enough to realize that. Do you have, and do you guys, do you have interest in MMA at all? Just not even like, well, certainly just competing yourself, but just understanding the puzzle of MMA. Yeah, I mean, I've been a fan of mixed martial arts for a very long time before I train Jits. Personally, personally, I'm much rather coach than fight, but I mean, I fight somebody for a good check and I get to pick the opponent and have a proper cab. Okay. I could think of a good online. Which dude? Who's that? All right. Who do you think is the greatest MMA fighter of all time? Craig, we can start with you. Just as a fan of the sport, is somebody's been deep in it. I mean, from my perspective, after that performance, I'm going to say Volkanovsky, because he was able to decisively outstrike Max Holloway, one of the greatest strikers in the sport. And he was able to hang with the wrestling of Islam, Akachev. And in terms of Ortega, he was able to survive Ortega, who has some of the most dangerous submissions in Jits. So I think, in my opinion, technically, he's the best. So even though he technically lost, he's still, he still has a crown. I believe so. He's proven himself. Given the size difference, given he's moving up and weight, I think all those factors really. The underdog, everything, the pressure. Did you think he would be able to hang in any of the wrestling exchanges of Islam? No, no, no, I was really surprised. That's why my eyes, it's kind of funny. Winning at the end of the day, I feel like judges influence that. Although I did think Australian judges would rob the other way, but I was assuming they kind of, somebody paid somebody and not enough maybe. But in general, I just thought he won sort of in the eyes of what martial arts stands for. Sort of going to the fire and survive and thrive and finish the last round strong, which is kind of like spiritually is what a victory is. So I wish we would kept going. Like, one more round. Yeah, exactly that kind of thing. What about you? What do you think? Like, who are the fighters you admire? Like, who do you think is the greatest of all time? I think the fighter I paid most attention to was John Jones. He has a great ability just to mix the high level striking, high level grappling. Although his, you know, Jiu Jitsu by itself isn't, you know, probably isn't like, you know, super high level, but his ability to mix everything together, I would say he's the best. And he's a fellow, you know, heavier guy, heavyweight now. So it's nice to see, you know, how those guys move at that weight. And a fellow natural athlete. See what I did there. What about you, Nicky? Yeah, if I had to pick a goat, I'd probably have to say, could be just because he was, he was undefeated. And he had a very, you know, high finishing rate, you know, very few of his fights actually went to a decision. So he just overall he dominated almost every single opponent he won against. The dominance. I mean, we've been joking about it, but Craig, what do you think makes the daggers tiny fighter so good? Like, from this small region of the world, so much dominance has come. I mean, obviously the amount of freestyle wrestling champions from that region probably puts their wrestling above and beyond the best in all of MMA. And obviously a lot of, even in the Olympics, a lot of champions out of that right. So I think that skill set combines with them, adding effective pin controls on the ground and do you get to submissions? But I mean, again, I think it's that hard training. Those guys like could be would maintain that pressure throughout the until I find break guys down their ability to fatigue guys to a breaking point. I think it's something they do. Best. But I wonder what that is. Was that technique? What is that? What is it about their upbringing? Because is that just that part of the world? What was the satire brothers with on the freestyle wrestling side to all the mixed martial arts people? Like, it must be part of the the culture also. They must be doing something. I don't think I've never, I haven't seen a convincing explanation of why yet of what's specific about their training, what's specific about their culture that creates that. Okay. What do you think about like the flip side? Do you admire somebody like Conor McGregor who knows how to create a spectacle? You Greg who likes spectacles? Spectacles. Yeah. I mean, I really admire early Conor McGregor because I found him absolutely hilarious. I felt like that was peak banza. I felt like he just took the American world by stolen. All these British, Irish, Kiwis, I believe we have a way better level of banza and attacking each other. And it's almost too easy to pick on Americans that take themselves very seriously. I mean, I'll keep leaving on the parts of the world to the far east of Europe. Well, that's the tricky thing with Conor. I think he was, I feel like you could have gotten the same kind of trouble because the Russians really took everything very seriously. They weren't joking around. Yeah, that's the problem. It's like it's a bit of, I mean, some things he definitely takes too far. You know, I felt like early on, he had the right balance where he wouldn't really cross the line, but he would do, he would do enough. He just took it to another level, obviously later in his career. But I think early on, good innocent banza. It gets a lot of eyes in the sport though. It's probably by far the most popular combat athlete of all time because of that. Yeah. I feel like you have to cross the line. I don't think enough people appreciate like the values he's brought by crossing the line. He's making a sacrifice crossing the line. That's going to affect him for the rest of his life, you know? I see. I don't think so. I think he always walk back because I think unlike my people who might disagree with this, I, well, yeah, I thought he always radiated a respect for the opponent like afterwards and underneath it. It felt like the same way you do, when I hear you shit talking, I don't see a person who really means it. I see a person who's having fun with it. I always saw kind of a grudge the same way. I don't know. But people took it like extremely seriously, but I saw the respect, like the common respect the martial artists have for each other that felt like it was always there. If you don't like that individual, you're going to perceive what they say more negatively than if you obviously were. So I feel like if you like someone, you're going to never think they really crossed the line. That's true. So you're saying I like you. That's what I'm perceiving. You're bullshit in the parts of life. Is there are there people that hate you? I mean, some of the family members are just hateful. That's far students. People that really don't know you all hate you. The fans love me. The friends hate me. It's a good place to be. Keep your enemies close. All right. What do you think is the most important muscle for Jiu-Jitsu as a biceps? I think a strong, I think a strong back, I think back one core second and then biceps. Okay, biceps. Do you legitimately think like weightlifting helps Jitsu? It's kind of the discussion under steroids. It's like the muscle mass and strength and power and explosiveness. All that. I think sometimes when we're at that upper echelon of competition, there's only there's like little minute battles that you have to win. And if you're if you're relatively close and technique, then a lot of times a stronger opponent pulls it out. But it could be also just the limitation, right? You hold position too long. What about for hobbyists? Do you recommend weightlifting? Like when you see people in the gym? I always recommend weightlifting. I almost see muscle as the body's armor, right? The more armor you have, the more damage you could kind of take and maybe recoveries a little bit better. And I've always seen weightlifting as a means to stick to my routine. Like if there's no point in lifting, if you're not eating right and you're not sleeping, right? So if you're kind of put it all together, then it's beneficial. What about you guys? Do you go to the gym? I go to the gym. Yeah. Do you go to the gym? So you're in the electrical and that butt machine or? Yeah, I focus on the glutes heavily. All right. What about like what about the injury prevention? So on how do you train to minimize the risk of injury? You guys have all been pretty good. I hope you've gotten a major injury with ACL. Yeah. Also, how do you train to minimize injury? Probably not the right guy to ask. Definitely. Can you talk through your injury? Like what happened? Yeah. So about one week prior to this last ADCC, I was wrestling with this guy named Kentha, who was also competing. And I want to go lift him from like a rear body lock and he hooked the outside of my leg. And we just felt something pop. You know, he felt a shift with his leg. And when it first happened, it hurt for like the first 30 seconds. And then I honestly debated. I was like, maybe it was just some freak thing. I was like, I literally thought about continuing the session. Then the next day, I woke up and it was like super sore. I was, you know, limping around couldn't couldn't do a full squat. So it pretty much killed all of my training for the entire week leading up to the event. So I couldn't train or anything messed up the cut. Obviously, there's there's added nerves with that too. You know, when you're not in the gym every day, leading up to the competition, I went out there. I wasn't really able to pull guard because I couldn't get, you know, full heeled the buck connection, which is inevitable with playing guard. And I was very hesitant to shoot as well. So I came out with the idea of just trying to use hand fighting to to tie my first opponent out. And then mainly looked to get to under hooks or over hooks and do mostly upper body wrestling. In the beginning of the match, I, you know, successfully got to an under hook. I got to rear body lock. He tried to roll and I ended up in top position inside control. But it was during the no points period. And then as the match went on, I gassed out and eventually he ended up taking me down and then scoring with two hooks on the back. So what's the injury? Yes. I got an MRI actually after the event. I didn't know. You waited, you waited until after the event. Yeah, I waited until after I was like, knowledge or ignores his bliss. Yeah, exactly. As like I honestly, I don't even want to know what's wrong. I was like, I just go out there compete. You know, I knew it was like the the biggest event to date. And I really wanted to do it. Think about not doing it. It definitely was a thought in my head, especially that that the day after, you know, it's always the worst day whenever you have a serious injuries the day after. And I was like, man, I really can't do a full squad. I was like, I don't even know how I'm going to be able to do this. It got a bit better over as the week went on. But I was like, man, I have to go out there and compete. I was like, it'll always be in the back of my mind. Like, what if if I ended up pulling out? What did you think about this whole thought it was just being a pussy? Yeah. Just slapping around. Just yell at him. I don't think we pressured you. We just say you make your own decision. Right? We just like, it's a tricky thing to do. Like with a heavily like a serious injury like this. We didn't know that was the thing we didn't know. Honestly, initially, I thought it was, I tore my lateral meniscus, but that ended up not being the case. It ended up being a full ACL tear. It was actually super surprised when I got the MRI results. So yeah, we didn't know how bad it actually was. What do you think about that situation? I think Nikki's a tough kid. I mean, when you're so close to that competition, there's not many, you don't get many opportunities like that to compete in front of 15,000 people. It's like, I props to you for pushing through it and getting it. And man, he had a close match with one of the best grapplers in his way classes. A few adjustments here and there. Especially if he was able to train previously leading up to that match, I think Nikki pulls it out. So some of the things you mentioned, nerves, there's action nerves just because you're under prepared. Yeah, I mean, you know, feeling under prepared. You want to go into a competition with, you know, the confidence, I did everything that I could leading up to this vent. I trained as much as I could. And then when an injury prevents that, you start to doubt yourself more. How do you guys think about injury? How do you train, you know, training with the best in the world, training to be the best in the world and avoiding injury? As you've gotten, you tore your bicep. Yeah, yeah, tore bicep. Girls are, dude, honestly, I was, I was a body, I was bodybuilding, you know, for like seven years. And no lie, I did a train bicep like most days, like almost that almost every day in those seven years. Pretty much I injured my, I injured myself. That's so jersey, man. Anything else? Or just the bicep? Just, I mean, no. Yeah, injured the bicep, pretty much I, the day before a wrestling practice, I had like a killer arm day. And by arm day, I just mean training biceps. Very rigorously getting a sick pump. And I go to wrestling practice the next day, you know, pretty late. I should have been there. I think get a proper warm up in. And the first thing I do is I shake hands and I go to shoot a single leg. And boom, I just blew my arm out the first movement I did. So just not being warmed up properly. In addition to, you know, having a very vigorous arm day fuel, I was prior. You hear that, but warm up. So like, what, what are some lessons about avoiding injury? Training it. I would say number one is, is warming up properly. Make, make sure your, your body is hot before you do hot stuff. Okay. And what is warm up looks like for you? I said, jujitsu or non jujitsu stuff? Yeah, just for a warm up in general, I'll do, I'll do something like a, if I'm talking competition, something like a, a jog walk back and forth few times, then a sprint jog, a few times to get that heart rate, you know, up and down. And then I'll grab a partner, I actually just filmed a DVD or instructional, specifically on the pre-match ritual. In addition to that, I'll, you know, grab a partner, I'll drill some movements. Typically, I'll drill some bad things like I'll start from bottom, bottom, bottom, side control workout from there. And then pretty much like 20 minutes in, I'm, I'm hot and I'm ready to go for, you know, rounds. Well, what about you? Greg, so what, uh, what's, what's the way to avoid injury? What's the worst injury you've had? What's the worst injury? I don't even know. I'm pretty good, pretty healthy. Whenever you, whenever you quit practice, someone has a mental. Has your heart ever been broken? Many times, many times, but, um, there's a thing I notice, people that spend the most time warming up off of the most injured. It's a strong correlation. All right, you can't argue with science. I remember you're right. Training with all of the tests, all of the tests would have a 60 minute warmup. Yeah. Surprise, surprise, always injured. Yeah. Very common. Yeah. I find that very common in the training room. Now, I think people, it's how they train. Like if you, like me, first sign of discomfort, oh, back pedal, you know, push through that stuff, go too hard, go when you're too tired, you know what I mean? Get too emotional in the role. I feel like those are the times that I've been hurt, where I just like, oh, a kind of this guy got me when I have that attitude and try. I believe it's how you train and sort of, obviously, what is this come from? Like, uh, positionally too, like, because you're training against some killers. I mean, you train, you train, you train with him and go probably pretty hard. It probably gets a little tired. He's like, yeah, I'm good for today. We go once a month with Nick here. That's it. And then you quit like 30 seconds in just saying, yeah, you know, you got to be safe. I like it. What about you? What have you learned from the ACL? What? Terri. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely without. Uh, also, you haven't been like I didn't get surgery. I didn't do essentially any rehab. I just have no ACL. My left leg. So what's the leg having no surgery? Guys, you've got two options. Sedgary rehab only. Nikki goes, I'll do nothing. Yeah. Definitely should pick up on the rehab. What's what's rehab for that look like? Like twice a day of doing some weird like bands or something? It's good. He's learned from his, he's learned some valuable lessons from about taking care of his body. Yeah. What's a like just training with no ACL? Uh, so at the beginning, it was definitely a little iffy. You know, I would have an occasional buckle. Like, I'd just be wrestling with somebody and go to step back and it buckle backwards a bit. But honestly, now like I haven't had a single buckle instance in a while, it feels 100% normal when I train. Uh, it feels better than my other need to be honest. Like I've had, I had my meniscus taken out in my right leg and that one gets sore more often than the the no ACL leg. Okay. All right. So putting that aside, is there, is there wisdom you've learned from that experience? Yeah. Uh, definitely should be doing rehab and and pre-hab. You know, I think that, you know, especially if you're a hobbyist or or professional athlete, you should be lifting, you know, whether you're rehabbing an injury or just for injury prevention. So I'm actually closer to correct because I've trained my whole life like pretty hard. Obviously, just the hobbyist, but like twice a day, the judo, wrestling, all that, never broke anything, never injured, kind of like similar philosophy, except like last year, I guess a year and a half ago, I got a tiny like groin pool injury and it still hasn't healed. And I've been using your approach of not giving a shit. Yeah. And like, I surely this is going to heal. It'd be fine. But it hasn't. Of course, if I was like an actual athlete, I would like probably still train through it and just fuck it, figure it out. But when you have other stuff going on, you just kind of weigh it out. Yeah. But now I think probably we have, especially as you get older, you have to do that kind of stuff. I think it's important for people to, you know, determine whether they're what they're going through is an injury or they're just hurt a little bit because injury, you know, for sure, take time, rehab it and get better. But a lot of people like those stubble toe or something like your out for a few weeks, you know, so that's, that's the problem with the injury I have. It feels like a stub toe. So I was like, yeah, I'll just wait a couple days. It'll be fine. And then a couple days later, it's not fine. And you wait, and then I never got an MRI, never got any of that. It's like, I'm sure I'll be fine. Yeah. So it's hard to know sometimes like what it's hard to know. I feel like a lot of people will just not check it out. I'll be fine. Well, because there's several failure cases, there is a failure case of where everything is a stub toe. You're like, fuck it. Like, like you're bleeding everywhere. You know, it's fine. Whatever. So you have to be careful. A lot, a lot of a lot of people can fall into that too. I think I'm in that category. Go to the doctor. Why do you go to the doctor? Yeah. Your best approach is typically wait until something else gets hurt so that you'll forget about the grind. That's yeah. Exactly. That's how I was hoping. I was hoping to get hurt. So waiting for the broken heart, maybe. Okay. That was very helpful. Oh, you mentioned, you're doing a whole thing on the pre-match ritual. Can you kind of preview like what kind of what's involved in your pre-match ritual? It's pretty big in the wrestling culture and the fighting culture. Like kind of what to do before your competition. But I think a few of our few people are just kind of missing out exactly what to do. So I break it down for them. I break it down to people like four weeks in advance. How you should prep your trading and your nutrition and your sleep for competition. In addition to that, I break it down even to a smaller scale. How early you should get to the event when you should be visualizing your competition. What to do? 30 minutes before 20 minutes, 10 minutes, five minutes. And the kind of mentality you should have throughout those times before you actually step onto the mat. When are you visualizing? How much are you visualizing? We say competition, you talk about the tournament or the actual people you might be competing against. A little bit of both. I'll spend time just visualizing the crowd. If it's going to be an arena with 15,000 people, I'll spend time in practice and when I'm putting myself inside that arena and visualizing, you know, stepping on the mat and hearing the, hearing the crowd scream or not. That way, you know, when competition time comes, it's kind of the same deal. I'm accustomed to it. In addition, when I get to the arena, I'll step on the mat. I'll kind of look at everything. I'll expose my senses to what it's going to be. And then I'll kind of shut everything off. Like a lot, some people, you know, scroll through their phone and can treat treat it like normal, have this normal conversations. For me, I like to limit my sensory input, my sensory intake before I go out and compete. I just feel like sometimes, I feel like sometimes we only have so many decisions. You can make it a day. And I want all of my best decisions to be made when it matters, when it counts. What about you? What's do you limit your sensory input on game day? Honestly, no routine, nothing. I don't, yeah, I don't do anything. I'm just like, guys, a double silver. We're both. You should get it. You should buy as a structural way. I'll get another silver. Now, honestly, nothing. Hey, I just try to relax, treat it like it's before training. Have a good try visualization or no? No, visualization. So the opposite of visualization, he just avoid it. Yeah, I don't even think about it. I'm just like, yeah, we'll have a good time. You know, try to appreciate it, but I can do it. By the way, when you visualize, are you visualizing tough positions, are you visualized winning mostly? Definitely visualize winning. I visualize how I can get, how I'm going to get to my most dominant positions, because you know, in comp, I want to do what I'm best at. And I'm also see, I see my opponent in his best positions and how I'm going to escape those if necessary. But most of the time, I'm just visualizing exactly what I'm going to do in that match. And I go out there and do it. Okay. So what had, when when your teammate, Craig is, you know, another like world class athlete has a fundamentally different philosophy than you. Do you visualize being frustrated at him? No, no, not frustrated, but I'll definitely come into practice with like solutions to problems that Craig gives me. You know, like if Craig, Craig's, you know, catching me something or giving me issues, like, you know, I'll go home, I'll, I'll watch a match that he lost motivation. I'll come back and I'll put it on. Just DM him like a highlight reel and losing. Yep. I wonder about you. Like this, it does affect you that you're a bit of an outlier. Usually before I compete, right before I go out there, I go, why am I doing this? Do I still need to do this? And I think if I hopefully don't embarrass myself, affects my instructional sales, that's the last thought. But I don't even put too much thought into the whole competing thing. I'm just like, you know what, train hard, hopefully I have a good time out. We're about the motivation aspect. Like that voice that says like, why am I doing this? That voice can break a lot of people. Like in the wake cut, it can break a lot of people. Like, why am I doing this stupid silly sport? Like you said, I want you to do is just rolling around. Like, what's the point? I'll cool someone with a nine to five job and I'll be like, yeah, that's why I'm doing this. I'll point that. Sure. So those DVDs, man. Yeah, I didn't get too deep on competing. Yeah. We're so polar opposite. It's like almost uncomfortable to be around you. Obviously, one of us is a clean athlete. You should do a duty on that. What about you in terms of preparing for competition, Ricky? The day before the day of, are there rituals that you follow? Honestly, like the few days leading up to it, it's different for me every time. Like sometimes I'll warm up before I compete, sometimes I won't, sometimes I'll fast, sometimes I'll eat. So it literally is just completely random. I don't follow any specific thing. But in the training room leading up to the competition, I'll definitely, like Nikki Rod visualized that I'm walking out onto the competition mats. I'll pick somebody that's a similar body type to the person that I'm competing against. And then we'll start out with some distance between us. We'll come out smack hands and act like everything's a real competition. I'll even sometimes have corners that will yell out times and things like that just to replicate it as much as possible. That's funny. Because I've talked to a lot of Olympic gold medalists. They used to do a podcast with athletes and they all sound like Nikki Rod. I don't know sometimes I'll do this, sometimes. Anyway, but that's also just a culture, I think. Maybe the chaos of not taking things to series is actually really, really helpful. Sometimes the pressure of taking everything away to series that can break you. I mean, it's just that thing is that biggest sport really. You know what? I think if I compete every day in practice, it just makes competition much easier. So I just put the pressure on there on the competition area, on the training, on the competing in the training. I don't know. Olympic sports aren't that big either financially. And people take it extremely, extremely seriously. I get to get that much money from Judo. I mean, I just don't take Jiu Jitsu that seriously. Because like I was just probably not having a good time until 21. And then I was like, oh, fuck, do I get a job? Although I pursue professional sports. And I feel like if I can make a career in Jiu Jitsu, or that with the decision at that point. And now you just stumbled your way somehow into like being at the top of the world. Yeah, that's what I feel like. I just walked into it. I feel like I couldn't just do that in wrestling, boxing. I couldn't do that in other sports. What was the toughest match you ever had that pushed you mentally, physically, technically? This doesn't have to be the best person you faced, but was there like a moment in your career that was like really defining for you? I mean, I would say like the toughest mentally was just this last ADCC. I just had a big injury leading into it that kind of screwed the whole camp and wake cut and everything up. So yeah, I would say I would say the last ADCC. Are you proud of your performance there? Like you stepped on the mat that you pushed through all of it? Like I said, I'm a very competitive person and I hate losing. So definitely not. Yeah. You had a collapse line. I actually have read. He was so physically exhausted after his good break. We had to get medical intervention. He thought he had a collapse line. So he goes the most tired that I've ever been in my life in that match. I actually popped the blood vessel in my eye. I was trying so hard. He comes out. He walks off of the ADCC mat backstage and I'm like, I'm kind of getting warmed up for my match and Nikki ran and come. He walks over a half in a puff and his mom's right next to me. He looks at her. He was like, I think I need help. I think I was a lung class. My mom's the one that called for medical. I was just laying on the warm up mat. Fuck it. I ain't got it. What were you? Have you find it? Later on the line. What about you? Craig defining or toughest matches? I mean, they're all pretty tough. I don't know. I can't really pinpoint one. I mean, probably the most annoying one was obviously the one where I had good and on by. I was like, tap, bro. And he wouldn't tap. So I let him out. Yeah. Mentally, I was like, I shouldn't have done that. Do you ever have a thing in your brain where it says, should I should talk now or not? And you ever say, no, I'm going to be respectful. I just got serious about some of these. I don't know. It's just silly. It's just all of it. The whole thing. What about you, Nick? Dude, honestly, most of my toughest matches are in the training room, right? Because I started with these guys. I started training under them. I started training at DDS when I didn't have any knowledge. I knew wrestling. I knew a knee cut in Jiu-Jitsu. But I started training with them when I knew almost no Jiu-Jitsu. And then I had to really work my way up. So definitely in the training room, like having one of these guys on my back, or there's a stretch of a few weeks or months when COVID first hit. And there was just four of the best grapplers in the world. And we just drilling in live rounds with these four guys. It was hard. It was very hard. Every round, doing six rounds, seven days a week with the best grapplers in the world. And it's like, you get no break in your voice to learn on the go. So I think for me in the training room, that was definitely my toughest matches. And that's where I built those mental calluses. There was a period where I drew with Nicky Rodd, probably what? Nine months, 12 months. And typically speaking, like I said, no warm ups. The first round, we take it pretty easy. The first round, you start in mount. The whole room, the rest of the training room, they take mount very lightly. Me and Nicky Rodd would be fighting to the death every day. I felt like we did an extra round every day. It was very growing. I'm every I'm every mean when I'm in the this of drilling or or live or live. Like we would do we would drill wrestling, you know, quite a bit like stand up. And in the drilling, like I just wouldn't like crack taking me down. Like we're not going live. We're just drilling, but I just wouldn't let him put me on the floor. So things like that, you know, I know that's great. Yeah. So you mentioned mount, like a so you do positional training. So is that would that be the hardest versus like live training, open like starting from guard? I would say mount internal definitely definitely made me very tough. Because you spent all this effort getting off of bottom out. And then you got to get on top of a guy in the at the time. I'm not they good at holding guys down. So it's gave quick. And I'm like, fuck, I just tried to hold them down. Got to go back down. Same thing with the turtle. It's like you start bottom turtle. You try to explode, get out, get away. And then you know, you switch and this guy gets up pretty quick. And you're like, damn, I got to go right back down. It was like constant circle, man. It's it's very tough, but definitely, you know, build some character on the map. What do you think is the value of positional training in general in jiu jitsu? Actually, this one just interacting with you guys. It's not commonly done in just like regular jiu jitsu jams. What do you see? Because it probably is not commonly done because it's so mostly experiences just frustrating. Like if you're evenly matched, you're basically frustrated the whole time. If you're doing it right. It's just like a logical battle that happens in like the mount and turtle rounds. It's like, you know, because you maybe get closest sub in a guy and or maybe you do sub in, you know, when you start on turtle and you're on their back, you finish them and then you get this high point and then immediately you got to go back down to defensive posture. It's very like it's emotionally like up and down. It's hard to do with. Super important if you're one of the better people in the gym because it just puts you in positions. You don't find yourself in regular training. So I think like a lot of if you're a big fish in a small ponte, you don't do positional spying. You're probably going to get exposed in competition. You might even look silly in those positions. So you really have to force yourself to do it. Despite the fact that you're giving someone worse than you a position where they might catch you. So you have to sort of put the ego aside. Yeah, that's one of the things on our training regularly. Of course, training with you guys, it's like trivial, but I didn't work on putting myself in bad positions when you get better and you regret it because the big negative thing it has consequence it has on competition is you don't take as many risks because you're kind of afraid for your back to get taken all that kind of stuff. That was me before I went to DDS. I remember I showed up there in that old position. I was like, fuck this. You better own this position. Exactly. I didn't really have escapes. That was a learning curve for me for sure. Do you see the value in positional training or is it just the source of tremendous frustration? Yeah, I definitely think it plays a big part and you know, your confidence when you step out onto the competition mats, you know, being confident that even if you get put in the worst possible situations, you know what to do and know how to work out of them. I had a long argument with Othagra Grayson when he visited and he thinks Mal is the most dominant position, even Nogi versus Beck. Is there a case to be made for that or no? I think all of your opponents utensils, their tools are in front of them. So like, if you're on Mal, they still have, there's a few ways to get out of Mal. I think if you're on somebody's back, I'd personally much rather be on somebody's back than flattened out. I'd rather have someone's back and then flattened out. But in flattened out. Yeah. But in flat out. So not even by your triangle, but just flattened. Just completely flat. Almost like the position in May where you see guys get finished because they can't get out. I think that position is probably the hardest position to escape. Can you see what Hodger's talking about with Mal or see just that good at Mal? Like he says that. You might mean the key cross collar. You know, I don't know. Did he say controlling wise? He just believes that you can complete that there's, he actually thinks there's more ways to get out from the back than there is from the mouth prior to getting up, including like physically. Prior to the keeping escape, I'll probably agree with him. But that keeping escapes so difficult to manage. It's the funny looking escape where you're like, so we've learned people have a lot of trouble. It's like super hard to learn how to do. But then once you learn how to do it, the effectiveness is just huge. Yeah, that's a weird one. When that come to be a thing, that pretty recent. I mean, I saw a TDS guy using it first, I think. Yeah. Who's the first guy to discover something like that? This seems like a ridiculous thing to discover. Yeah. What if I just wiggle? I thought it's a joke at first. I was like, you guys really doing this? Yeah. Yeah. I remember somebody showing me like a technique where, like if you just like walk your hand on a mat or something like that. Maybe I'm trying to go or something. Yeah. Yeah. I walk the arm around the arm, huh? It's just like a funny discovery. Like as opposed to like trying to shove it in, just like walk it. I like doing that to people, but with things that aren't true. I mean, I'll just tell them this is a technique and watch him try to work out if I'm being serious or not. Yeah. That's what you do when you achieve guru status. They'll just listen to you like your Stevens to go see what they'll believe. Speaking of which, how do you balance, you have to travel all across the world. How do you balance that with running a school or being a world class teacher to athlete? Well, maybe I mean, the secrets of travel for me are two two drugs, Xanax and Medaphinal. That's how we time adjust and we hit the ground running. But what does Medaphinal do? Xanax puts his sleep right here. Yeah. I mean, I have no epilepsy since the no epilepsy medication. But how does that work with the steroids? I mean, they work well together, you know? Yeah. Nice. Focus and physical recovery. But in terms of traveling and training stuff, it is, I mean, we're lucky because we've got so many high level guys. So we can we can travel and they're still still in good hands. I mean, it will be a problem if me, Nicky, right, Nicky Ryan left on the gym had Ethan. That would be a problem. But we've got to make sure it's not just him. Although everyone says they're happy when you're going. So that's the one I heard. Happy when I'm gone, but they do miss me. Yeah, for sure. Until I get back. All right. What about you? Just like balancing it? Do you try to stay completely focused on competing? Like for some of the big matches you have coming up, are you able to kind of diversify? Well, I like to, yeah, diversify my training to where, you know, if I'm don't have a competition scheduled, I'm more focused on skill development and, you know, getting better and broadening, broadening my tool shed. But, you know, if I'm like six weeks before comp, I really start amping up the intensity that I bring into the match against bringing some of that visualisation towards practice. And maybe I train less volume pre-competition, but higher output per session. Yeah, what is what's the perfect week of training look like? If I'm not in competition mode, I would say Monday, Wednesday, Friday, twice every other day just once. If I'm pre-comp, just Monday to Sunday, once a day. So that's on the mat. You're doing the full like positional training, live training. Why set up? Oh, yeah, I do a lot of bicep curls. Yeah, I left a few times a week now. Yeah, cardio or no, cardio is all that. Cardials are all that stuff. I do do some crossfit workouts, like crossfits, I'll do like some e-moms or some amrab, so crossfit, you know, terms. That's for Instagram? Yeah. But yeah, crossfit is a good way to kind of like push that threshold. Sometimes on the mat, because I'm so good, I can't always get that full red line. So I'll hop in across the gym and I'll do some workouts that, you know, bring me closer to death. What do I do, Craig? What is the perfect week in training look like when you're back home training? I try to be the gym twice a day every day when I'm back just because I travel a bit more than these guys. So I try to be that eight and 12 every day, hang out in between. Usually, definitely, usually train both of those sessions, depending on how my body feels. The gym positional, doing every technique, positional, live. I should probably do more positionals, but because I'm just trying to work on wrestling and stuff, and especially leading up to the Volcanovsky's last while, I was trying to wrestle more and focus on those areas even before I traveled over there, just some experimentation with some stuff. But yeah. Yeah. How do you experiment with stuff? Like how do you, so there's like regular positional stuff, but when you have ideas, like, like, where do you do it in during the training sessions, or do it outside of that, you get to get together with somebody? Usually, every session I show up with something I'm thinking of. Usually something from top, maybe something from bottom, but, and then I just try to maybe pick there are people. Some people, obviously, I'm just fighting to the death with. It's not a good time to experiment. And then others, obviously, you can, you can play around with ideas on. Okay. What about you? What's the perfect week look like? Maybe, well, you said you're 100% enough. Yeah. So yeah, honestly, I have pretty much the same schedule as Nicky Rhodes. So Monday, Wednesday, Friday, do twice a day, every other day, once a day. And then normally, new in practice is like our biggest class. That's where, you know, all the pros go in. So I tend to do more open rounds there. And then we have a 7 p.m. class as well, which is more hobbyist. And that's where I'll do my positional rounds and, you know, force myself to be put in bad positions. So yeah, what you do, 8 a.m. 12, like in terms of what B team has 8 a.m. 12 and 7 p.m. And the hobby is some more 7 p.m. Yes. Okay. Do you believe in overtraining? Do you think you can overtrain? I used to not believe in that. But then I got hurt. I was like, oh, you attribute that to overtraining. I think, dude, I'm telling you, I trained, I lifted like a bodybuilder for like seven years. And by lifting, I mean, I was just lifting seven days a week. And I trained arms most days. Like almost, almost every day, I would do, like, you know, four or five sets and get a, get a pretty good bicep pump in addition to my lift. I think that I had to contribute somewhat towards my, what about, my training? Fair enough. What about on the actual mat overtraining, like explaining to which time of the mat? Well, psychological physical overtraining. I think you can definitely overtrain. But it's more of a, like, it's your body, it's healthy. You have to make sure your mind is sharp. Like sometimes, maybe taking a day away or even, even diverting your attention in a different aspect of training can help you be a little bit sharper overall. Sometimes it can be like, I can get a little like stagnant because you're doing the same stuff over and over. But I think if you just keep like, you know, overtraining, then your overall baseline just gets higher and you, that become, you become, you know, accustomed to that. What about you? You don't seem like a guy that overdressed. I've heard of it. Never been close to it. Now, I think controlling how hard you train is definitely protection from injury. You know what I mean? Like if you're red line in yourself and then you're fighting to the death of the gym, that's 100% when you're going to get injured, going to get sick. So I try to make sure I've, I've had enough sleep. I've had obviously enough food post training and that sort of helps me to train a bit harder. But still try to avoid red line in myself too much. I think established also like what days are going to be your peak days? Because you're, you throughout the week, if you're training seven days a week, you're going to have ups and downs. Like for me personally, when it, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, usually my best days and besides that, also have other great days. All my days are great. But Monday, Wednesday, Friday are also great. You're like unable to do that some days are off from the others. I'm always on, bro. Okay. What advice would you give to people who are not always on hobbyists? How to get better? Like people are already there. I don't know. Purple bells, brown bells, black bells. They're just like doing like a couple of times a week or something like that. Like how to get better? I think being consistent, like find a schedule that you can consistently train. Maybe it's like, you know, three, four times a week or even a little bit less. Just be consistent over the over the years. I think to, to often people are like, oh, I want to get really good, really fast. And it's like, definitely takes a long time to get to where you want to be. What about the, what you're doing doing like, what while being consistent, what kind of stuff you're working on? So honestly, I think one big thing for me, which is something I actually started doing once, once B team was formed was filming all of your rounds and then watching it every day. Because you can see what specific problems you're having and then you can base your positional rounds around those problems. That's really interesting. It's kind of depressing though. Like sometimes I had to, you know, I edited this podcast for a long time. I still do in part and I hate the sound of my voice and like what I look like and stuff. But it does make you better. Yeah. And I also hate the sound of Craig's voice. So this podcast will be especially this will be doubly difficult. I'm glad, glad the rest of you are here. I don't know. That's the root. Do you watch competition footage yourself? And like to analyze like, yeah, confidence. Why are you doing, girl? Yeah. I know. So watch it to miss my confidence. Is there advice you, Kyrgyle, give for hobbyists to get better? I mean, just not every round has to be a fight to the death, you know? I feel like you're going to get injured, but it's how that way, you know, going to learn as much. It's tough. I would say just as a black belt who took just very seriously for a very long time, basically when you become a hobbyist, your skill is basically slipping, your age and your skill. And so not taking stuff seriously is actually its own psychological skill of like, you're good. It's tough. It's tough. Like it's, it's tough in a way that is different when you're like a blue belt or something that you're, if you work hard and you train correctly, you're going to get much better. Here you're kind of, you're looking downhill. You're like, yeah, I guess I'm going to enjoy the art of it. Reframe the victory. You know, like if it's a young upcoming guy and he comes to me, you're like, well, that's a moral victory, you know? Yeah, but then that has to happen. You have to be able to not do that to avoid injury sometimes. Like, if you want. So yeah, it's a different, it's a different thing. Plus, plus with me, just because some people recognize me, they come in. You have that probably. You guys definitely, obviously have that, I've solved that problem. What? How did you solve that problem? Traveling around, you do a seminar or anything like that. Yeah. It's believable that you could get submitted once. Yeah. But if they catch you, give them a few. Yeah. If people tell their friends, they submit a bit of seminar one time believable. Yeah. They got me four or five times. Yeah. You've rubbed them of that. Okay. That's pretty funny. But it's also they have this energy. Like they think, you know, they're coming in hot. And I usually like to just basically get submitted quickly twice. And just it changes everything. It makes it more fun. I've noticed that them submit you twice. Just like very quickly. What are the options? longer. Hold off. But then it's like, it's very hard to like, yeah, if you're a very serious competitor, and so on, you take it seriously, then yes. But like then people go, people, what they try to do, this problem is what happens to you guys, they try to impress you by going super hard. I have people every day come to my gym, try to take me out. Yeah. I just stay sharp. Come to practice. Let's get it on. Do you feel that energy? I think I need to talk to Craig here for like a seminar. Like somebody's coming in like really hard. Like a brown belt will come in. And they really want to impress you with like their technical side of their big fan. They've been watching your DVDs. Like, what do you do with a guy like making complete joke out of the rope? You know, giving the pass, messing them do stupid shit. You know, like rub them of the realness of it because it's stupid. I'm not going to roll hard with strangers. You know, I feel like you should roll with a circle of people you trust. Injuries happen rolling hard with strangers because that's the same way you get injured in competition because you don't have that relationship with them. And I should also mention that's probably not a good way to impress somebody's bug. Just going, ape shit, go at 100%. Oh, yeah. That's not at all. I think the beauty of the jis is like the camaraderie of it. Like as you get to know each other, there's like technical, like different ideas you have and all that. Yeah. Okay. Do you think Gigi just who's dying in popularity? Craig? Yeah, it's long dead. I think it's just shows like, I mean, I have heard some numbers on the viewership for the G-Words finals and they don't even compare to the undercard of like, who's number one events. So I think like when I was coming up with competing in the G-Words time, you looked at those guys that won black belt championships and you were like in awe of them. It almost had that ADCC champion feel. But now that's not the case. You know, I just feel like that a younger generation aren't looking at who's winning black belt, G-Words. I personally don't think and I don't think they're like, they want to be that guy. They want to be like a Ritolo, Gordon. You know, those are the people they want to emulate. So you think like the G like Abbie J.J.F. Geat tournaments will just keep declining popularity. I think people will still do. I mean, it's easier. I think as you're over 30, because the G-Words are a bit of a slower thing and the Masters participation is bigger in the G-Words because obviously you know G-Words is now hitting in a wrestling direction. Wrestling in Hillhooks, you're over 30. That's a terrifying prospect. You know, what's terrifying about the G-Words? Less. So I think in a participation rate, the Abbie J.F. will still be good. But I just don't think people are as interested as they used to be. What was wrestling in Hillhooks terrifying? Well, Hillhooks I can vaguely understand if you don't understand Hillhooks. You work at Desk job and you've never wrestled in a guy double-axe, that's going to probably break you back. You know, I think the older guys here are scared of wrestling. It's hard to wrestle at 40. To learn wrestling at 40. Yeah, I mean, I think it's even just hard in general to do wrestling at 40, but it's easy to pull half-gun in the game at 40. I think it's hard to do judo at 40 and people still do it at 40. judo hurts more. I think judo is scary than all of them. Yeah, I think does wrestling really hurt in 40? I don't know. I don't know how to do it. I'm here to you. Yeah, it does. Interesting. I mean, I agree with you saying that judo looks like the most dangerous. Like even their practice partners they're just getting slammed flat. What a yeah, I did. I mean, I did judo for a really long time. There's a lot of people there at 40, 50, 60 judo and they get they're the ones that are still alive, though. That's true. Survivor buys. You do a little bit of judo, right? But I'm a yellow belt. You're a yellow belt and judo? I should be in a structure. I got a yellow belt in the sixth grade. I believe it was the sixth grade. I did it for about, I don't know, six months. But you're also using judo in competition basically. All right, are you doing like a ride type throw? Like you're doing a lot of that. I just started doing it. You just started lifting your leg in various ways until the war just figuring it out. Yeah, doing different kinds of trips. I looked at the Sandberg guys doing it. I was like, come be that hot. Yeah, get me to crack. Well, they looked at your foot locks and they said, that can't be that hard. They said, come be that hot, band up from the tournaments. All right. What do you think is the best take down? The best take down. No, no. When people are trying to train for competition, where you see the transcendence heading. I think those foot sweep is catching the fire nowadays, say a lot of foot sweeps and arm drags. I would say pretty popular in our sport arm drag. It's good to go on drags. Arm drag either to get them behind them or even just to cause reactions. Make them pull away and we can start reattacking. Are you talking about it in a context of what's the best take down to score? What's the safest take down to mitigate the risk of guillotine submission? Or most effective in general? Yeah, most effective combined. Combined. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think it's about scoring. I think any sort of body luck. You know what I mean? Lucking your hands around the body, you've been able to put them to the floor that way. I feel like that's most effective. Saves a smile, even have a reason out of a leg attack, a leg entry, upgrade to the body. What about like foot sweep, sick outside, foot sweep, what what are we? I would say, yeah, you know, foot sweep from outside, foot sweep or even like something like your toss on a point of buying or sweeping the foot. Those are all pretty safe. See, why is that scary? I don't understand. Is that scary at all? I think it's the lifts that are scary. The lifts. Yeah. Who's lifting people? I'm like a good lift. The turn. No, not you. I mean, in master, like we're talking about older guys doing no give some of those old bosses take it very serious. You know, they just start lift T out. T. Well, do you? They're coming. They're coming to my press. Grab a lift. All right. Just just for the gram. Okay. What about submission? What's your favorite submission? And what do you think is the most effective submission? Except the buggy joke? I would have to say the rear naked. It's definitely the one that's hit the most and the the highest level of competition. Who's that? That's pretty interesting to see you escape all that and to put it on. That's the cool thing about EBI to see like the world class athletes. I was surprised that this possible to escape with you on his back. You're a tricycle. Be cream. Oh, yeah. Be cream. It has the helps. What's in the breed? What's the formula? Or is that secret? That is a proprietary blend. But that's what you use for greasing. That's what you've recently for. Legically. Does it have other application outside of grappling? I mean, I'm sure you're creative. All right. Ask your boyfriend. Is that R&C for you as well? R&C good choke. I mean, overall favorite for like solidifying a finish because like, you can push you can put some ice sleep, right? They don't want to tag pump the sleep. But as far as like something I've been working on now that I'm now starting to implement competition. Yoko Senkaku side triangle is like, it's a beautiful thing. You have a lot of options. You have to try and go to finish. If that fails, you have the Komura. You could break the arm. You could also just transfer and take it back. So Yoko Senkaku, I'm a big fan of and I continue to progress and you better write it. Have you ever broken anyone's arm? Oh, yeah. I mean, the first few competitions because I was like, you know, pretty athletic grappler or athletic wrestler going against like local black belts and brown belts. Like, one of my first matches, I broke somebody a Komura. Pretty much every time I've got a heel hook, which is only twice I've broken an opponent. If I have a joint lock, it's probably going to break. Like, a lot of times it breaks before they tap. Yeah. You seem like a really friendly fellow. How hard is it to break an arm or a break and join it? Well, I don't think it's that hard. I think, like, if you're talking like about an arm bar, we have this position to where like people kind of holding on, holding on and then it slips and their arm starts going to and then it just breaks before they even, you know, get a chance to tap. I love this point. I need about a guy. I need to tap one time and it was actually it was surprising. I had to put a lot of force into that. I suppose some shoulders and the ligaments in the knees and ankles, but to a fully this kid, Sambo kid, fully let it go and he tapped it out. I think the angle is like up here. They're built different. Hopefully, you can be reconstructed different. You should rebuilt different. Yeah. All right. What about a straight foot lock? You've ever, do you guys do straight foot locks at all? I know. Yeah. I mean, I'm learning them now. We had some kid come come in the practice one day and like look, look at him. Full-on all of us. Full-on. Straight foot lock. Straight foot lock. Just this little like Polish kid. No, no. He didn't put like everyone, but he told the entire world. He's got a fucking email. He's a close friends of family. We probably put a hit out on on a good practice and he just said everybody. Yeah. It's always interesting when you get like, yeah, people that specialize can surprise you that this could be effective stuff. Do you think there's other stuff that could be still discovered in Jujitsu? Like what, what areas do you think are ripe with techniques to discover? Like wrestling is really interesting now. There's a lot of innovation happening in wrestling. I think there'll be more innovation when we get people that are more adamant about standing up from bottom position. I think if we get more of the community, they're like, all right, I want to get off the bottom. I think just stand up. Just stand up. How Jujitsu doesn't work. We actually changed the name. How Sanba doesn't work if he just stands up. Did you really? All right. Okay. Just Jujitsu. I'm going to hire it and send it for free to the entirety of the Soviet block. And Nikuraj, do you think ego is useful for martial arts that doesn't get in the way? Okay. I think you need to use it in both ways. For sure, have an ego, like if you're training competition, but also it can prevent you from learning and progressing if your ego is too high. Like you really have to shut the ego down when you're in the mode of learning and trying to develop skills because you're going to put yourself in these bad positions. You're going to have issues with training partners that aren't necessarily up to your skill level, but because you're in these bad positions, you have to make these certain sacrifices. And for sure, ego can be a good or bad thing. But if you're able to shut the ego off and learn, then that'll have huge progression when it's time to put the ego on into use during competition. When's the last time you put shut the ego off? What about you Craig? Do you? I mean, he seemed to be super easy going. Is there, like, is the ego just not part of it? Oh, for sure. I just don't want anyone to know they've damaged my ego. You know, you have to suppress it deep down. There's a child underneath all of it crying always. For sure. I think ego is good for a bit of perseverance, you know? Like it will help you stick it out against a tough battle with a training partner for sure. A bit of ego's on the line. Plus the bands that back and forth were trying to like stare each other up a bit. I talked to shit. Yeah. I think that helps hone shop in the ego a bit. What about you? Do you try, do you seem like a super homo guy? Is there like a monster underneath? Oh, so it's a total act. Yeah. I definitely think ego is a big motivator. I think it's very good to have in the aspect that it'll drive you to help to want to be one of the best in the world. But like Nikki Rodd said, you need to be able to turn it off in the training room and force yourself in a bad position where you may not be winning. Are there like, you know, Donnehart's mentioned Boris. Are there like grapplers? This is a question from Reddit actually. Boris like characters. Anybody you've trained with in the past who doesn't compete but is just an absolute beast in training. Like people you've met there are just like, well, somebody that I think has a probably the best like submission grappling in in MMA, I think like Gilbert Burns is a his submission grappling. That's amazing. It's very, very good. I trained with him early early on in my grappling career. And I was really impressed by his ability to move hold down opponents are trying to stand up. And as a whole, you know, he can he can get submissions and put people away. Have you won the last time have you trained them recently or no? No, it's been a few years. Which is some impressive ability to submit your saying. Yeah, like I mean, you know, you would see I see Gilbert go against a few like pretty decent black belts in the room and fair well. And you know, maybe he gets to their back, puts a choke on it's like Gilbert's super high level grappling or submission grappling. Yeah, but he's pretty widely recognized as a monster. So I don't know. He didn't really answer the question. I think you're not. I'm just saying. What was the question? All right. What are the? Is there is there is there people like you've done all these seminars. Are there just especially in in the in the Eastern block? The you see, yeah, like you want to Kazakhstan. Is there killers out there that oh yeah, this tough guys out there. Obviously, I don't remember the names in the North Carolina. I pronounced it if I did, but definitely some tough guys out there. Obviously carrying skill sets over from from wrestling for sure. Not Sambo but wrestling. But that's like, well, yeah, other than just people that surprise you just don't compete. They're really good. Are there have you met those? I feel like it's less so today because there's so many so many more athletes in the sport, but definitely when I was coming up back like in Australian and stuff, there were guys I'd train with that wouldn't compete and that would be like super tough rounds for me. Yeah. And there's so many more avenues for competing in general. So, yeah. What about you? Have you met some masters? Yeah. One guy I could think of in particular is Jason Rao. He's a trained up in Long Island, I think, right? Opened up his own gym out there. And God. Yeah, Vanguard. He used to compete, but he would never be able to compete at the same level he would train at. So now he's just focused on mainly, you know, opening up a gym and teaching his students, but he was a guy that was, you know, extremely good in the training room, you know, world class. I still think to this day he's legitimately one of the best in the world, but just doesn't compete anymore. Who wins in a fight, a lion or a bear? Paula Bear? This is for you, right? No, not a poll. Well, yes, it's a good question. You're all, you know, Paula Bear is pretty impressive. No, Grizzly Bear. Grizzly Bear. I think a Grizzly Bear wins. Well, who is the most threatening predator in Australia? Well, it's a tricky question here, because everyone's scared of the animals in Australia, but I mean, you get bitten by a snake, you get bitten by a spider. That's not that bad. Bear, America, Bear, which is holding down to each year. That's a much more terrifying prospect for me. Even sharks, sharks going to be quick. No one sees the shark coming. The sharks just going to buy you in a half-stay. Bear will take a bite and chew. A bear just holds you down and eats you. So that's, that's frightening for me. Australia is a bunch of just weird shit that can kill you. Just you co-came Bear, the movie that's coming out. I saw the trailer. It looks good. Yeah, yeah. So there's not every bear. There's like black balls and there's black balls. There's bears and there's bears. So I think that's what they often don't talk about. Everybody puts lions and bears in the same category. I think there's just some weak bears. A lion would kill a black bear, I think? Not every black. I'm trying to tell you. There's different grisly and polar bear. I'm betting on those. Yeah. No, I think grisly stuff the size. But actually every video I've seen of grisly is they tie out within like 20 seconds. They get bored. That's the guesting. Yeah, the guesting. Nicky Ryan guesting, right? Yeah. That's all that's all they got. Dream old. And they try to just, they try to just take a breather. Like there's these crazy fights between bears and the elastic points. I heard this story about a Russian family was attacked by a bear in Russia and killed the dad. And it took so long to eat the daughter. She made three funcals to a mom. I was eating her. And the first cook of the mom thought she was pranking her. That's crazy. That's way scarier than what I'm giving you. Give me a snake bite any day. Food. Yeah. You know what? Let me let me change the question is like if you had to fight a bear or a lion, how would you try to defeat it? Do you think you have a chance at all? Well, I think I'd attack a lion a little bit differently than I'd attack a bear. We'll be the difference. Okay. Well, I've seen this video where lions are eating and you have three like skinny guys walk up behind them and kind of scare the cat off of all their food. I think maybe I produce some props, scare the lion away. Right. But if I have to fight it, I have to fight it straight on. I mean, the thing is that you can't even if you take the back, like you can't bite it or choke it, the main is too big to lock your hands around. You know. Are you sure about that? That's amazing. Yeah, that's amazing. I mean, it's like it's like mad at him. I don't know. So I think you can make it back. Good drawing a lion. I maintain. Yeah. Yeah. But getting there, getting there, I think I fake high go low. All right. Make up thing. I'm going for the foot or something. A little pulse sweep and I take the back. What about what about a bear? I feel like they're easier. That might be easier to take to hold back control. Yeah. Maybe the thing is the bear falls on its back. Just kind of crush it. So so big, substantially bigger than a line, right? Like a full gun. There's also like terrifyingly like loud with their wars and stuff. Yeah. I think I think so. First of all, I saw Grizzly. I'm like, he's going to attack me. I try to yell a little bit louder them. Maybe their term a little bit like give him a. Yeah. And then yeah, for sure, I try to get behind it. I probably go like something weird. Maybe like pull the eyes out or something. You know, for sure. I mean, I'm going for the vital organs. You know, I'm play dead. Play dead. And then oil check it. There's no there's no pride in that. Wow. Pride even matters. See the ego. The same advice you gave. You got to put the ego aside with the bear. Even then. Even then. Would you how would you fight a bear or a line? Just play dead. Like that. Yeah. Could you beat a kangaroo? I can't go. Yeah. Kangaroo? I'd beat the shit out. Kangaroo. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, are we boxing gloves? We just like how would a kangaroo attack a human? Try to kick them with the claws. Knock them down. And then they choke them. Stand on the tail. The kangaroos do. They choke each other. Yeah. They don't choke each other. You don't believe me? You want to show video? They choke each other out. I've seen this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. With wood. They do with this. Yeah. They knock them and just grip like this and hold the grip. What does that look like? Little paws? How are they gripping? I promise you. I'm not lying. I'm pretty sure I've seen the. They also do. Strange shit. Like if there's a predator around that weight in a pool of water. And then if it comes to a tag of lead, they're pretty smart. Okay. Speaking of which, what's the most effective martial art for winning a street fight? You talked about rulesets and streets. I think you've talked about being a street. Have you ever been in a street fight? Yeah. Just one. Yeah. Nothing special. Nothing crazy. Hey. Yeah. You don't talk about that time. Like for self defense purposes, who will be a strategy on the street? I feel like. Whatever wins a street fight, whoever's willing to take it, the furthest, the fastest. You know what I mean? If you're thinking you're gonna box and he's biting you, puking your eyes, that guy is gonna win. He wants them more. You know what I mean? That's why the crackheads fight. They go for the kill straight away. You know what I feel like. It's more about who's willing to do the most that's gonna win that fight? Fascist. The most fastest. Who's got the least to lose, you know? Okay. We can also define winning differently because you could also run away. But in terms of technique wise, wrestling, judo. I think if it's a one-on-one, I'd go, I'd go wrestle, wrestler wins. But if it's like a, you know, it's like a multiple people, you gotta go moitai, stay on your feet, can't go down to the ground if it's more than one person. Yeah, big double leg, maybe. Yeah, double leg, put them on the, on the impact, right? Four hits a ground. Yeah, what's the goal? He's the win the fight. Not go to prison. Um, I haven't thought of it through that way. Yeah, certainly. Yeah. Yeah, not go, not, not to get neutral combat here in Texas. We good. Is that in Texas? Do you know what the paperwork for that looks like? You have to actually sign something. You just say, I hope I don't need to find out. I did hear a story where guys were on six street and they looked at a cop. They were like neutral combat, neutral combat. Yeah. And just got like the cops to say yes and just duked it out. It could be fossil. That sounds crazy. I kind of admire that. But I've also been playing Red Dead Redemption recently. So I've like internalized the cowboy a little, a little too much. Just to return to Jim stuff. No, because it's a business, because you're running a business, there's money involved, but you're also friends, but you also training partners. Is there a tension that money creates that can threaten to destroy friendships? That's something I always worry about with money. I try not to go doing any kind of business with friends or family. I think if you're all very clear and honest and open at the start, makes it much easier. I think people have issues when there's like kind of like things are written and fine printed. Nobody knows exact answers. And so what did you just say guys can't read? Yeah, that makes it. It makes it. We're learning that today. Yeah. Yeah. No, definitely complicated though. Yeah, I mean, it's not always obvious to how to be transparent and stuff and about everything. Have you felt that tension? Because in just a world, money is not really unlimited. Just running a school. What's that like? Because it's the first time you're running a school, running a gym. Yeah, I mean, it's just constantly updating people about what's going on. What your expectations are. You know what I mean? We've had some problems with coaches who I feel like think the pie is bigger than it is. You know what I mean? They feel like maybe we're getting rich out of this and they're missing out on things. So it's like even amongst managing staff that can be challenging too. So yeah, I mean, it's a constant work in progress to make not only to make sure everyone's happy, but to make sure they're comfortable enough to reach out and tell you they're unhappy. But I feel like those challenges are common amongst any small business. Still it sucks. Just to mention, I'm cool as to this, but I'm just not learning this. Somebody I met and talked to and I really like his Isaac. Yeah, because you're also active on Reddit. What's your name on it? It's unbelievable. She's mom as undercover as possible. Oh, it's not you. It's actually, it's actually John Blue. She's mom, right? So I've done my research, I guess. And I guess you guys had had a falling out and have split. I just want to say that I don't know, the few interactions I've had with him. He's a beautiful human being. So it just shows to me. Visually, maybe not internally and sexually just the experience. No, just a kind person. I don't know. I like them a lot. Like to me in a business setting, yeah, tensions are created in it sucks. I don't know. I mean, I suppose money, all the stuff that happened in the jungle aside, probably money had a role to play to create extra tension. Money and ego's about like who is the leader who is not the leader is tough. It's tough to manage that kind of stuff. I seen it happen with you just to schools a lot. I don't know exactly what because it's like there is also a hierarchy inside grappling, just to schools like people that are better or not. There's literally ranks black bullet bra, there's like competitors that are better. I mean, I don't it's a weird dynamic in which to operate because like usually there's more politeness and like humanity layered into the way a company works. But here there's just a bunch of, I mean, it's like violence laid on and on display plus money. It's crazy. Is there something you could say to that? Like how you try to minimize or something you want to comment on Isaac? Yeah, I mean, it was unfortunate situation, but it just didn't work out. You know, like there's going to be personality clashes. Some people I can't imagine anyone having a personality clash with you with me. Yeah. It's hard to imagine. Yeah, surprising. I mean, I didn't even know what to say. I don't want to touch on it too much, but obviously, his expectations about his role in the gym, obviously different from house led to some personality clashes that was sort of unresolved. You know, something's happened that can't be resolved. He can't fix those things. Yeah. You know, obviously a lesson, I hope for both of us, definitely a lesson for me from a management role to try to address these things sooner, but also sometimes I came up in a different time where there was no money, no opportunities. I had to pay that, I had to pay that way totally for myself, especially coming from Australia, like being a professional athlete into just a, I think so I had to pay a lot of opportunities for myself. And I feel like sometimes, I don't know what the right word is. Sometimes people don't appreciate some of the ways you help them. And they just think feel like almost they deserve or are entitled to certain things. And that is very difficult to manage. But I think again, like we both see the situation different. I do hope he finds a better, a more comfortable place to train. But yeah, obviously I've known him for a long time, sort of like a brotherly relationship. So that's going to really make personal problems a lot worse when you're that close to someone, you know. I just hated that like I've seen in Gigi's especially, but in other places where like close friendships were destroyed because of like gym stuff. Like people running gyms. And just as a person who is in this case, just a fan, but in general, just like a student, it's like sucks. But again, in my position sometimes, I wonder if there really was a friendship or mere opportunity. I have to be careful of that with some people in the sport. Is it a sincere relationship or like I mean, it's difficult for me to tell or am I means to an end? Sure, but I think it's actually a trade off because I think a lot of close friendships would have like even relationships would have like one tested, like can break if they're not properly communicated. Like some of it could be just misunderstanding of like for a long period of time. It's not explained through the lack of integrity. It's just like you like you have to like talk through that shit. Like just be honest with each other. It takes them MDMA or really get down to it. It drugs solve everything. You learned it from this conversation. I've actually haven't done MDMA yet. People say that that's something I would enjoy a lot because my brain is I think natural on MDMA. I'd recommend it for sure. For sure. Is that what you do with Gabby? I'm not talking about it. She drugs me. In general, why does there seem to be drama in the jess world? Like outside of what's going on here? Or is it just a... It's universal to anything. Drama is everywhere. And then drama rises to the surface. Okay, I'm gonna make some money. Yeah. I wish it was a little bit less. You have a bunch of like we mentioned some of them. You have a bunch of instructional's out. What are some interesting things that you're looking forward to like exploring in terms of teaching? So just stand up as you're most recent one, right? Yeah, you also have one called power bottom and inclusive modern approach to the guard. You're tired. What are some other ones? False reap allegations. False reap allegations. By the way, people talk about power bottom again. Hilarious title, but they say it's a really good instructional on like the guard. Yeah, I try to. I try to at least be innovative. You know, like everyone else, I feel like ripping off John and Gordon, putting some sort of slants on that. So I'm trying to take sort of a different approach. I think you can actively influence this sport with what you're at least because people are going to try to emulate that. So I think that's those type of instructional's just stand up power bottom like approach to the sport. Definitely. I think definitely has a positive impact on the how people play the game. Yeah, you working on something now? Probably a fundamentals course. Just because we're bringing out with the Wipeout program coming in. So I'm trying to develop a fundamentals course along the line of the constraint-based learning stuff we were talking about today like a way to approach learning as a beginner to sort of speed up the process a bit and I'll make it as so technique dense at least have it a bit more fun. And focusing in on just like examples of problems to solve. Exactly. Yeah, approaching judicially learning that way. Like I mean, kids learn quick through games, I think adults are capable of that to a certain extent as well. You're releasing that instructional on pre-match preparation. Yes. One of the stuff. Do you have a thing in a body like bypass? Yeah, I have a body like a rideylock DVD or instructional. I have the pre-match ritual coming out. I also have I'm filming how to build athleticism for grappling. Just really trying to capture different angles kind of like the same, you know, with Craig Stone trying not to do the same thing that everybody else does, you know. There's a ton of wrestling, ton of jiu-jitsu instructional. And the steroid results are coming out. Oh, yeah, yeah. More plates, more dates, you know, there runs that, hit me up for a blood panel test like an in-prom thing and I did it a few days ago and I believe the results will come out shortly. Oh, yeah. Do you know the results? What are you betting on next? It's hard to believe. Yeah, it's very impressive. You're putting me in. I'll put position here. Do you think you'll face Gordon soon? I'm open to it. I don't know. I don't know how soon, maybe in the next six months, I could see me facing him before ADCC Worlds. I think that's a great rivalry. I think it's a really interesting one. It's fun for me. Is there any chance that the two, the Soviet Union and the Nazi Germany get back together? The DDS under whatever name gets back together? No, I don't know. Highly unlikely. I mean, I kind of did this to, you know, to back up, Nikki Ryan and we're sticking with our guy. Look at what do you think? I think there's just too many personality conflicts for it to really ever work again. Do you think there will always be war in the world? War? Yeah. I think from the beginning of time it's been some kind of war, some kind of battle. Controversy helps people evolve. Until AI, super intelligent AI, becomes way more powerful than humans and humbles all of us with this power before it destroys us. Oh, until it runs out of batteries. You guys are screwed. Awesome. I'm really fortunate to be able to hang out with you, to train with you. And thank you so much for talking today. That's the best ending. Thanks for listening to this conversation with Craig Jones, Nikki Rodd and Nikki Ryan. The support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now let me leave you with some words from Miyamoto Masashi. You must understand that there's more than one path to the top of the mountain. Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.
