 I'm here with Mr. Beast, the brilliant mastermind behind some of the most popular videos ever created. Do you think you'll ever make a video that gets 1 billion views? I think maybe one of the videos we've already made might get a billion views. Which one do you think? Probably like the the screen game video with enough time, it's only a year old and it's already on 300 million or some of the newer ones we've done. I've gotten like 100 million views in a month. So those four projected over 10 years because YouTube's not going anywhere. Probably one of those. So over time they don't necessarily plateau. What's interesting, we're literally jumping right into it. I love it. It's good. I'm a firm believer that it's much easier to hypothetically get 10 million views on one video than 100,000 on 100. And part of why it's much easier in my opinion is like if you make a really good video it's just so evergreen and it never dies. Because YouTube, when you open up YouTube and look at the videos they're just serving you whatever they think you'll like the best. And so if you just make a great video and it's constantly just above every other video, you know, even two years down the road then they'll just keep serving it and never stop. Which is why it's much easier to make one great video than a bunch of mediocre ones. What about one billion subscribers? You've passed PewDiePie's and most subscribed to YouTube channel. When do you think you get a billion? Let me do some math real quick. So around 120. So you think about this? No, I don't honestly. Because one thing you'll find if you want to gain subscribers, if you want to get views, if you want to make money and almost any metric in this video creation space, if you want something it all comes back to, okay, well then just make great videos. So instead of like focusing on all these arbitrary vanity metrics, I just kind of focused on the one thing that gets me all that, which is make good videos. But and that I do think we will, when they hit a billion subscribers, I don't have a plan on going anywhere. Even though we're only on 120 million right now on the main channel, I think like we're doing around 10 million a month now and YouTube just, yeah, I just don't see it going anywhere. And I don't see any reason why I'd ever get burnt out or quit. So I think with enough time, yes. I wanted to ask you those family friendly questions before I go to the job questions. So now we have dark questions. But if you wanted to hook them, you would start off with the dark question. That's how you get them. Okay, well let me ask you about the Twitter poll you posted, a $10,000 death poll. You tweeted, if someone offered you $10,000, but if you take it a random person on earth dies, would you take the $10,000? And 45% of people said, yes, that's at least at the time I checked 850,000 people committing murder for just $8.5 billion in total. So what do you learn about human nature from that? That's a good question. Honestly, this is like late at night when I threw that up to you, I was just like, this will be a funny thing. I assumed it'd be 90% known, like 10% yes. But there are a lot of serious people for you guys listening. I just did this random Twitter poll. I was like, would you take 10 grand if it meant someone ran them in the world died? And a lot of the replies on the tweet were like, hell yeah, why not? And I was just not expecting that. And so I don't really know. I mean, I feel like your take would be better than mine. Was it disturbing to you? Surprising to you? A little bit. Yeah. But you know, obviously a lot of people were trolling. But I actually, you know, when you read through those replies, I do think like 10% of them were like dead serious. Well, I think sometimes the trolling and the laws reveal a thing we're too embarrassed to admit about the darker aspects of our nature. So I don't know if you listen to Dan Carlin's hardcore history podcast. He has an episode on painful payment, which he describes throughout history, how humans have been really attracted to watching the suffering of others. So public executions, all that kind of stuff. And he believes that's in all of us that, for example, if something like a YouTube or a different platform streamed a public execution or streamed a torture of another human being, a lot of people would say that's deeply unethical, but they will still tune in and watch. And that we're we're attracted to that drama. And especially the most extreme versions of that drama. And so I think part of the laws reveal something that's actually true in that poll that like your answer so much better than mine. Do you think about that maybe even with this good game? Like so I think how many how many views does this what game currently have 300 million? Yeah, stuff like this. So just imagine thought experiment how many views that video would get if it was like real. Yeah, because I mean YouTube is like, I will turn a blind eye. We won't take it down. Yeah, I mean, I've obviously probably have billions of views. How do you think you'll die? And do you think it'll be during a video? Probably doing something dumb like going to space when I'm in like older like trying to go to Mars or something like that. I know for a fact it won't be on a video. Every video we do with safety experts and stuff like that. So it's not really risk, but yeah, I could see myself like, you know, after a million people go to Mars or something like that, I'd probably like, you know, let's go and and something like that maybe. So not in the name of a video just no, I know. Are you open to taking risks when you shoot videos? You just went to Antarctica. I mean, you're putting yourself in the line a little bit, right? Of course, but, you know, we we had that video on the works for three years and then we consult with tons of experts radar. The entire path we're going to walk beforehand to see if there's curvasas. So we know there's no curvasas. We do training. We consult with experts and we have survival guides there with us and, you know, monitor to the weather and everything. So it's like any variable that where we could get harmed, we just pre-plan for it. Same thing with beard alive. Like I had David Blaine spent a week underground. And so I consulted with him and consulted with basically anyone who ever buried themselves alive, you know, we the coffin we used to bury me. We did so many tests like that coffin was buried 10 times before I was, you know, for a really longer than 50 hours. It tested the air flow and everything. To the point where I was safer in that coffin underground than I was above ground. Like so we just tend to just not leave anything up to chance, you know. Another strange question then. So you recorded these videos to yourself, you know, five years, 10 years from now. Have you recorded a video that's to be released once you die? Well, first off, I am just glad that not every one of your questions have to do with like views or things like that. It's nice getting different questions. So this is it's good. No, seriously. It's a little dark. No, but it's fine because a lot of people just do like how much money do you make? You know, it's just something I just, everything's always about money now over for when people talk to me. So it's nice. But for the videos I made for you guys who probably don't follow me too closely, when I had 8,000 subscribers and I was a teenager, I filmed a bunch of videos and scheduled them years in the future. And I said I filmed one while I was like, hi, me in a year. And the video went up a year later. And it was just like, hey, I think you'll have 100,000 subscribers. And then I did one while I was like, hi, me in five years. I was like, hey, in five years, I think you'll have a million. And then one that hasn't come out yet, but it comes out two years is what was high, me in 10 years. And I tried to predict 10 years later how many subs I'd have. So what he's referring to. And yes, there are some that are scheduled like 20 years in the future. And so if I don't dial, just move them up. And I remember, because I filmed these though like seven years ago, but it was, I remember saying a line like, you know, if I'm dead, then I'm currently just in a coffin and like whatever, blah, blah. And because the only way the video will go up is if I'm not alive and if I'm not alive, then I won't be able to push back the schedule of low date. So go public automatically. Yes. And so, yeah, I have a couple of those. Like if I knew I was going to die of like cancer or something, and I had like three months to live, I would vlog every day. I filmed so many videos and then I would just schedule up a little video a week for like the next five years. So it's like I'm still alive. And I would completely act like I'm still alive and everything. And I think something like that would be cool. I don't know why, but I've fantasized, not fantasized, but I've dreamt about that a lot. Like, I don't know. If I only had 30 days to live, what would I do? And for me, I would try to make like a decades worth of content and schedule upload it. So they automatically go public in the future. And so it's just like I never died. I'm just there. Yeah, it's a kind of immortality, but it's also kind of troll on the concept of time. Yeah. You can die in the physical space, but persist in the digital space. I actually, I recorded a video like that because I had some concerns and I just thought it's also a good exercise to do. A video would like to be released if I die. And it was actually a really interesting exercise. It's cool. Like it shows like what you really care about. I guess it's like writing a well. But when you're younger, you don't think about that kind of stuff. Exactly. Mine was just dumb. Yeah. I'm bones at a coffee. Yeah. Here's this probably so serious. No, it's fun actually. We realize it's like there's no point to be serious at this point. It's a weird thing. I guess you've done this, but it's a weird thing to address the world when you physically use no longer there. So like you know this would only be released if you're no longer there. Exactly. That's a weird exercise. You know what's funny of all the people listening to this? Yeah. You know, we're probably the only two people that have made videos for when we die. It's like such a niche thing in the fact that we're bonding over. It's kind of funny. I think people should think about doing that. It's not just about YouTube. It's also social media because think about it. Like there's going to be a last tweet and a last, I don't know, Facebook posts, they last Instagram posts. Yeah, I feel like there's some aspect that's meditative to just even considering making a post like that. And also it's a way for the people that love you to kind of like celebrate. Do you think that would help them cope or not? Like if someone randomly watching this did film a video, you know, for if they accidentally dying some freak accident to be given to their family, do you think that would? And it was like a genuine. I think it would really help. I mean, it depends because like how would you even intro that like, hey, mom, if you're seeing this, you know, it means I'm probably dead. Yeah, exactly. That's how you interact. That's the opener. I just want you to know. Yeah, I guess. Yeah. And I guess you could say in a kind of funny way, but and just talk about the things that mean a lot to you. Because otherwise you're at the risk of the last post you have is like, like, I don't know, talking shit about like Donald's. That's, but then you're dead. That's it. 100 years. I don't know. This I do recommend it's it's like the Stoics meditate on death every day in the same way you kind of meditate on your death when you make a video like that. Because it's actually not just even talking to yourself. It's talking to the world. And it like for some reason, at least for me, they made it very concrete that there's going to be an end. And I'm like, it's almost it's over for me because if I'm making a video, it's over for me. It's just an interesting thought experiment. I recommend people try it. Okay. From a euo-frative death, by the way. Yes. I it's hard because like what if you just die and then you just see nothing forever, you know, they're nothing. It just fades to blackness and you're just like that for trillions, upon trillions to billion squared years. And it's just it's scary. But also before you're born, you don't remember those what X amount of years either. So that gives me a little comfort. But you know, it's definitely very scary. Something I'd rather not think about in time like 80. I'll deal with that problem then. I don't know if I told you this, but I'm kind of hopeful that someone like Elon or one of these like freak smart people would just like be like, you know what, screw it. I'm going to figure out a way where we can slow down aging. Get it where, you know, we can live to be two, three hundred years old and just like set their sights on that and then just kind of save us. So be really nice. Like it's it's almost absurd to think that in our lifetime, they won't figure out a way to just even slightly slow down aging where we could live to be like a hundred twenty or hundred thirty. And then that extra time, they won't figure out some way where we could live to be 200. Like obviously not immortal, but I don't I don't see how in my lifetime the life expectancy doesn't just expand. Well, it also could be that the immortality is achieved in the digital realm. Like it could be long be long after you're gone as a Mr. Beast run by Chad G.P.T. types system. Exactly. Yeah, that consumes everything I ever said, everything I ever wrote. And I don't want that. I want to live. What do you smart people out there figure it out? I'll keep you entertained. But I need you to figure out how to keep me alive. You know, give me until 200. That will make me happy. Well, that's that's funny. Who owns the identity of Mr. Beast wants the physical body is gone? Like, is it illegal to create another Mr. Beast that's Chad G.P.T. based? I don't know what the laws are on that. Yeah. I mean, once I'm dead, I don't care. Well, but you just said you did care. I mean, there could be a AI like many Mr. Beast they are created after you're gone. Yeah, I mean, that'd be cool to be able to like train up a model and let them lose. So my content lives on, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. But it somehow feels like it diminishes the life you contribute. Yeah, it's an authentic, but it's also there's there's some aspect to the finiteness of the art being necessary for it. Oh, 100. Yeah, one, the second I think starts spamming out videos. The videos lose all meaning. And it's pointless and it's a money grab. If you run YouTube for a long, she'd run it for a year. How would you change it? How would you improve it? It's hard because you know, obviously, I'm biased because we're doing really well. But I feel like when I open up YouTube on my television, I get the videos I want to watch. I don't, I don't know. I don't, I don't ever open it. I'm and wonder like, what are these? What are these 10 videos on my homepage? When I click on a video, my suggest, I don't ever wonder what these are. Like I, I, and maybe it's because I'm very adamant about like the kind of videos I watch and I try not to watch videos that I don't want to get recommended more because I just, that's how I think. But I'm very happy with how it is at the moment. I think one thing though that I just hate with the passion is the comment section on YouTube. It's just so bad. But that, I know that's not something that's going to 10X the growth of the platform. But if you think about it, you go to Reddit to read comments and somehow like the, you know, usually the top 20 posts on a popular Reddit post are not spam. You know what I mean? Like have you ever clicked on something on the front page of Reddit and then most uploaded reply to it is like, go check out my site right here and it's like trying to scam you out of a thousand dollars. Yeah, I can't even think of one instance. I've ever had that happen. So like, Reddit, it's so nice to click on post and just see what people have to say. And I almost wish like you had that same feeling when you read the comments on a YouTube video. Instead, it's like, it's so many people just copy and pasting so many bots that just grabbed the top comment for your previous video and pasted it over. So the top comments and every videos are the same. And the things that break through that are just scammers trying to get you to give them a thousand dollars for a fruit, you know, fake ad. That comment section is one of the most lively on the internet. So be amazing if YouTube invested in creating a natural community like where people could do a high effort comments and be rewarded for it. Like I read it. Yeah, like actually right out of long time. That would make me so happy because like when I upload a video, I usually go to Twitter to see feedback. Like I read my comments and I'll flip through newest, but it's just I feel like Reddit and Twitter just give me so much better filtered feedback, especially now that with Twitter blue because people pay eight dollars a month. I've noticed like any tweets I get from verified users now, they're usually not just garbage troll takes like these are people paying eight dollars a month like they're usually relatively sensible. And so it's been pretty nice. Like after I upload a video, I just go on the verified tab on Twitter and just see what people have to say. And anyways, I live for the day that YouTube's like that. What do you think about Twitter? What do you think about all the fun activity happening recently since Elon bought Twitter? I think you should make me CEO like I tweeted. Well, I should say sort of we had we just like a couple hours go ahead of conversation with Elon and you guys in exchange of some excellent ideas. So yeah, I legitimately think obviously you're exceptionally busy, but I legitimately think it'll be awesome if you some help participate in the future of Twitter. Yeah, it would be fun. There's so much possibility of different ideas. First in the sort of the the content like dissemination hosting and all the different recommendations, like the search and discovery, all the things that YouTube does well. I think the most exciting thing is he's you know willing to move fast. And so I think there's going to be a lot of interesting things that come out of it because he's just moving quick and a lot of these more mature platforms just take years to do the simplest stuff and they're very bureaucratic and so it's gonna I mean it'll be interesting to see which way it goes when you just kind of take up move quick, break things, whatever type approach to social media. I'm actually pretty curious to see what features he rolls out. So what would be your first act as Twitter CEO? I can't spoil it. Okay. I gotta get hired. What do you think about video on the platform? I mean, do you think that's an interesting or is it like messing with the the medium, the nature of the platform? I think Twitter will always be closer to TikTok than it is to YouTube. I gotta at least in this current form. I don't I don't see 20 minute one hour long videos or whatever, you know, even 15 minute videos being watched over there. I see it more as like the short and snappy stuff closer to TikTok. But at the same time, Twitter is a really good comment section for the internet. I mean, it's almost weird why like why doesn't Twitter allow you to embed YouTube videos? Like why why does you should just ask Elon that? Like I don't know if that's a YouTube thing, but when YouTube are posted video, why do they have to link to YouTube? Why can't they just embed it on Twitter and you just play it there? I mean, wouldn't that just solve a lot of problems? Yeah, but then the two companies that have to agree turn to great each other's content. I don't know, but it seems like when when I mean, well, it's more of a win for Twitter because then people don't have to leave the platform. I mean, that would be the easiest. But who gets like when you watch the ads on a YouTube video that's embedded in a Twitter who gets the money? It would still be YouTube, but at least then right now people just post a link and it takes you off Twitter and it just kills your session time on Twitter. That's really interesting, but the yeah, because the Twitter whatever the dynamics of the comments, especially once the spam bots are taking care of, Twitter just works. It's really interesting. So Reddit is a nice comment section for the internet. It's a slower pace, more deliberate, like higher effort. Twitter's like this high pace, like a femoral kind of stream, but there's the vote, the up voting, the downloading works much better because you can do retweeting, right? Because the social network is much stronger than it is on YouTube, like the interconnectivity. Yeah, on Reddit, you're going to get the top replies are going to be the most refined ones for its Twitter stuff flows to the top that's not super refined, but like you're saying it's more off the cuff stream, I can't just switch. A lot of people prefer it because it's a little more personal. How do you think Twitter compares to YouTube in terms of how you see its future on roll in 2023? I mean, I think YouTube's going to be YouTube and not much is really going to change, but it's going to keep growing just because that's just what it does because it's owned by Google. But Twitter, I don't know. I mean, it's one of those things like you can't predict if a year for now an economy is going to be in a recession or booming. And I think Twitter is kind of the same thing. One thing for certain, a lot of things are going to be rolled out, but who knows? You responded to you on saying Twitter is unlikely to be able to pay creators more money than YouTube. What do you think that is? Well, yeah, because I think that Twitter responded to as one where he was saying that the users will jump over if Twitter could potentially pay more than other platforms. And I was just saying, obviously, because Google has Google AdWords and that's Google's whole thing. It's putting ads on stuff. They've been doing it better than anywhere else in the world for a very long time. It's very unlikely in the next few years that Twitter is going to just magically or any platform, give a creator the ability to make higher CPMs than on YouTube. Kind of crazy. Some creators in December, Q4 because the average are higher because of Christmas and everything, some creators literally make like $30, $40 per 1,000 views. That's after YouTube's cut. It's almost like hard to think about, like how high the RPMs get. And even then, once you pull out of financing cars, the high CPM niches and you move into just normal stuff, it's still just crazy. There's sure volume of creators and the fact that all of them get these multi-dollar CPMs at scale. It's pretty beautiful. So you do, I don't know what you would call them, but like integrated ads in your videos and you do, I would say masterfully, it's like part of the video. You're talking about brand deals. Brand deals is that what you would call that? Yeah. So it's a brand deal. It's part of the video. It's still really exciting to watch. And yet there's a plug for the brand. In general, just brand deals since you've brought it up, integrating them well. I think that's something a lot of creators don't do. They'll just do a brand deal out of the blue. They'll just be filming a video and then around the three minute mark. Just start talking about a random company. And I feel like if you don't want viewers to click away and you want people to not get pissed off and call you a sell-out, you got to find a way to integrate into the content. And ideally, use the money and the video to make it better. Like the easiest thing you're doing, you do a brand deal is just tell people how you're using the money from the brand deal to make your content better. And if you do that, like known cares. Now they're supporting you for it. And you go from being a sell-out to like, oh, I'm doing this to make better videos for you guys, you know? I don't know if you can share, but with those brands, when you have discussions with them, are they strict about how long you need to be talking about it? Or is it more about their leaving control to you about the artistic element of it? The problem is the ones who don't give us artistic element, we just don't really work with anymore. Because it's just, you know, we get a hundred million views of video now. And I can confidently say I know how to entertain them and convert them better than these random brands. So, yeah, if they don't give us that freedom, I just won't work with them. So you have that leverage, but for smaller creators. It's a lot harder. Yeah. And they're going to just say 45 seconds. Here's what you say. Take it or leave it. And it's like pretty brutal. Because I think just in general, if brands were more accommodating to let creators tell their story of the brand and talk about the brand in a way that felt a little more natural, I think it would be, hey, it'd be less cringe. People would be less likely to go, you know, tap, tap, tap, skip. And obviously it would convert better, but they're just so afraid. And they want to standardize things. Say these words and 45 seconds right here at this three-minute mark. Yeah, I often think about how to resist that. You just don't do them, though, right? Not on YouTube, right? On the audio, I do ads at the very beginning. And I say you can skip them if you want. But the brand loves that. I don't like the point is they, so the funny thing about podcasts is different than YouTube videos. Podcasts people actually do listen to ads a lot because it's slower paced and they like the creator voice, like talking about the thing. But in general, I just don't believe you should be talking about a thing for a minute exactly. And that's going to be effective. I want to see the data for that. I think what's much more effective is the way you do ads, which is like integrating into the content, like put a lot of effort into making a part of that, like doing the brand deals. And it's difficult to have that conversation. It's like a very strenuous conversation you have to have with brands, each one at a time. And I just wish there is more of a culture to say like the quality of the ad read matters a lot more than the the silly parameters, like the timing of it, how long it is, the placement of it, all that kind of stuff. What percentage of your viewers do you think have seen one of my videos before? What percentage of the viewers on YouTube, right? Yeah, of your viewers on YouTube, though. Yeah, most people are sure of all of them. It's just interesting because you're speaking very specifically about my brand deal process. And so in my head, I'm like, I wonder what percentage of these people even have any idea what he's talking about? That's interesting. I love the thinking about numbers. The whole time we have this conversation, it's all I could think about. They've got got damn it. There's probably like 50% of these people have no fucking clue what he's saying. And we're about the torture in for five minutes. Yeah, yeah, probably. But that's something I can't turn off in my brain. Less than 50%. Is that a good thing or bad thing? Is that exciting to you? That there's like 50% of people don't not watch them Mr. Beast video. Isn't that an opportunity? Yeah, I guess it's an opportunity, girl. I don't know. Honestly, I was just kind of excited to hang out with you. Yeah, me too. And it was a lot of who cares that it's like, yeah, so it's kind of like having a buddy to go along to journey as I'm just kind of eating shit and doing my normal grind. It was like kind of fun. And also you just say really wise stuff constantly. So honestly, no, I never even put any thought into like that demographics or what I could gain. It's just interesting because like my retention brain when you talk about something, I'm instantly like, what value are they going to get? How many of them are going to be interested? What percentage of people do I think we'll lose? And I'm like running all those calculations of background. And that whole conversation like the law is anyway, it's just something I can't turn off. My like bells were like air air. This is bad. What are the different strategies for higher retention? For your videos in general, it's like how do you cook good food? You know what I mean? That's like the same kind of question. I see. So there's so many different ways that you're so it boils down to, I mean, do you think of the level of a story or do you think like literally watching five seconds at a time? Am I going to tune out here? Am I going to tune out here? Am I going to tune out here? That's all of it. You need the overarching narrative. And then you also need the micro where every second, you know, needs to be entertaining. And you basically, what's interesting is the longer people watch something, the more likely they are to keep watching. So you don't have to try as hard in the hypothetically back half of a video as you do in the front. Like even right now, we're so deep into this where a lot of people listening are probably just going to keep listening relatively close to the end of the list. We just have a really boring part of this conversation because they're just they're just in it. They're they're immersed. And so a big like to really boil it down to a simple level, you just want to get people where they're immersed in the content and then just kind of hold them there. We had this discussion offline. And by the way, I should mention that this is like late at night. It is. What time is it's at nine o'clock. And I I only slept one hour last night because I'm an idiot. And I flew to the wrong location. Well, here we're like, Hey, let's just book you a hotel to fly. He's like, No, I got it. We're like, you sure we just do it. We always do this. He's like, No, I got it. I got it. I'm just going to have to rub it in. And then today I come to find out he flew to the wrong airport. The airport with the uh, or city with a similar name to ours. Just same name. Yeah. Same name in a different state. And I was like, that's why he should let us book it. And so he's on one hour of sleep. And he's literally been dying all day before this podcast. He'd downed like two things coffee. We've been going all day hard. Uh, yeah, I've been, uh, got to interact with you. I should say that this gave me an opportunity to, I got a, uh, ride from a stranger. And it was an incredible person that got to interact with them. So it's like, there's so many kind people around here. Just like this kind of Southern energy. And then I got to go to a diner because I could, you know, there's only one hour between me arriving and having to fly out. So I went to a diner. There's there's a really kind waitress that called me honey. So that was a beautiful moment, you know. I was so confused. You tweeted about that. And I still like, like, my assistant was like, uh, Lex isn't here yet. And I saw your tweet. And I was like, he's here. He's like, no, he's still flying. I was like four, like an hour ago, he just tweeted about a nice diner. Yeah. I didn't realize you was a diner. There's a diner in a different state. And then you had to fly over here. That was and then I called you. You didn't answer. I was like, hmm, that's like something's not adding up. Yeah, I feel like a such an idiot because, uh, apparently the world, uh, has cities like Springfield, right? Like, there's like every single state has a Springfield. Oh, really? Yeah. I think so. I think that's a, that's like a Simpsons joke, right? That like, it's, uh, the, the city and, and the Simpsons, the Springfield. And I think every single state or most of them have a Springfield. And the same is true for like, uh, Georgetown. I think the most part, I forget what the most popular one was, but there's like a list of the people get when they run out of ideas and just keep you in the same goal. They're your Achilles heel. You know, I got to, I got to meet a bunch of people from, um, from your team. It's just an incredible human beings. So let me just ask on that topic, how do you hire a great team? Like, what have you learned about hiring for, um, everything for it, for the main channel that you do, uh, for the, the react to the, uh, the, the gaming channel to, um, Mr. B's burger to, uh, festivals, all that. The big thing is, especially in this content creation, because it's not like anything that's done on a Netflix or, or different, uh, content mediums, I, I really need people who are coachable and like, really see the value in what I care about because it's a very specific way of going about things. And it's a, like, a thing, there's no one like plug and play. Like, if Netflix wanted to hire someone to do a documentary, there's probably tens of thousands of people you could hire that have worked on documentaries before. But if you want to hire someone to make super viral YouTube videos, you know, like we do, there's just no one you, you can really pull from. Like, sometimes I'll hire people from, uh, game shows, right? And they have all these preconceived notions about pacing and how a video should be. And you have to spend like the first year, like, breaking all these habits and, you know, and they think they're better than you. Like, a lot of people in traditional think they're better and they think their way is better than what we do. And so, for me, it's almost easier to hire people that are, are just hard workers that are obsessed and really coachable and just train them how to like, be good at content creation and production, then to hire someone from like traditional, which is the only way to really do it because there's not that many YouTube channels that have scaled up. So it's not like there's a huge talent pool of people who've worked on YouTube channels. Uh, so it's easier just to train someone than just pull them from traditional because traditional people just, I don't know, they have all these opinions and things and they just think our way of going about things is dumb. Yeah. So you want people who have the humility to have a beginner's mind, even if they have experience. And it sees the value. Like actually, uh, well, you'll still get it. It's so crazy, like, especially some of my other friends that are scaled up through YouTube channels. There's people that will come on and you'll ask them like, what do you want to be doing in five years? And instead of saying, oh, I want to be working on the channel. They'll be like, oh, I hope to be working on movies or this and they see like working on a YouTube channel as a launch pad to go into traditional. And it's like, no, like you just don't get this is the future is the end goal. This is your career. Um, and so I'm just so tired of having those kinds of conversations. Like I feel like people really should be coming around. Are there like recurring interview questions that you ask? Is there is there ways to get? Yeah, but the biggest thing is like, what do you want to be doing in 10 years? And then their answer isn't, you know, making content on YouTube or, you know, if there are answers, anything like movies or traditional stuff like that, it's like just a hell now. Like it just won't even remotely work. So you really want people to believe in the vision of YouTube? Yeah. I mean, ideally, it's like, oh, working here. You know what I mean? So it's less about the medium and more about just being on a great team is doing epic stuff. Yeah. Well, and yeah, the medium as well. Because those it's just it's hard to put it into words, but there's just two completely different ways of going about things. You know, like our videos aren't scripted and, you know, it's a lot more run and gun. And when we, if we hypothetically blow up a giant car or whatever, like you only have one take, you know, I mean, so, um, and it's not scripted. And so you have to over film, overshoot things over compensate for like the dumb way of going about it. And a lot of traditional people would be like, well, just plan what you're going to say and just plan the angles. You can cut the cameras in half. You can save 50 grand here. You can save a, you know, 75,000 hours editing. There's in that. And it's like, yeah, but that's not authentic. That's, you know, blah, blah. You get it. It's, it's almost so obvious that it hurts to have to like constantly have these conversations. But so what we live in. But there's also a detail like there's a taste. Like I've watched a bunch of videos with you and it's clear to you that you've gotten really good. I don't know what the right word is style or taste to be able to know what's good and not in terms of retention in terms of yeah, just stylistically visually. I don't have to think. I can just watch a video and it just, it just screams in my head like this is what this is what should change based on the, you know, million videos I've watched and all these viral videos are consumed. Like this is blah blah. What's optimal and things like that. It's almost like your brains like a, you know, like a neural net. And like if you consume enough viral videos and enough good content that you just kind of start to like train your brain to like see it and see these patterns that happen in all these viral videos. And so that any time I watch a video or a movie or anything, I just can't stop thinking about what is optimal. And so it's like it gives me a headache sometimes when I watch something too slow or I don't think it's optimal. Obviously my taste isn't the end all be all. But that's something that kind of torments me if that makes any sense. Oh, you can't enjoy a slow moving. No, I can't. And that's not the state. There's attention on Godfather's horrible. Yeah, no, I've tried to watch that movie like three times. But isn't that not to say slow movies are bad. Like there's an audience for it. It's just obviously not what I've trained my brain to like in social media and YouTube right now. Like this is not the meta. And in general, like you said in neural network, you're training your brain in part on actual data. Right. So you're actually data driven. So you're looking at like in terms of thumbnails and titles and different aspects of the first five, 10 seconds. And then throughout the video, the attention all that you're looking at all that for your own videos to understand how to do it better. So that's where the neural network is training. Yeah. Basically, there are ways you can kind of see like the most few videos on YouTube every day and stuff like that. And I just kind of consume those every single day. And I've been doing that for way too many years. And then you just start to nose patterns like the thumbnails on the most few videos or videos that go super viral tend to be clear, tend to not have much clutter, tend to be pretty simple titles, tend to be less than 50 characters. Introes tend to be this stories tend to be this. And you just kind of like after you see those thousands and then tens of thousands of time, it just starts to click in your head. Like this is what it looks like, you know, so how are you able to transfer that taste that you've developed to the team? So for like, because you said like broad things, but I'm sure there's a million detail things like what zoom to use on the face to use in the thumbnail, right? Like the answer is whatever makes the best video because the problem is the more, I have so many friends who are like this, they'll make like checklist for their editor. So like, you know, at this beat and this beat and you need to have like a three-part arc in and this. But the problem is that's how you the more constraints you put on the team, the more repetitive and less innovation you get and the more like, you know, after 10 videos, people are like, all right, I've already seen this. So to me, and I'm 24 and you know, probably my mindset will change in the next 10 years. I just haven't been in this industry too long. But the only way to like really make innovative content and keep things fresh is to not put constraints on or put as little as possible. And so that's why I'm very hesitant on all that stuff because the more I say the more they're going to be like, oh, then that's what we do. And then, you know, I'll say one time like, oh, you know, ideally there's a cut every three seconds. And then next thing, you know, every video, there's like cut every three seconds or whatever. So it's it's hard because I try to give as little training, not training, but as little a facts or as possible and more just make suggestions. If that makes any sense. You mean publicly or to a team to my team? Yeah. What was so we talked about sort of teaching your voice or your style, whatever we want to call it to other people on the team so they can be kind of a Mr. Beast replacement. So what's the process of teaching that? So you don't want to. No, I got your constraints. You're more time about like what I would call almost like cloning, right? Like like Tyler and other people like that. Yeah. So when we were hanging out today, I was showing him how we have multiple people in the come it's almost like talking to the camera to have you turn slowly to the camera. I was like it was have it. Is it weird to you to not be looking at the camera? This whole interview, I constantly have been turning towards the camera. Like I'm talking to him. It's a habit. Because my whole life I've just been talking to a camera. Who are you thinking about when you look at the camera? Do you like imagine somebody? I'm fully thinking about the person just sitting watching it. I almost it's weird. But I'm looking at the camera. I don't see a camera. I'm like in a haze, picturing what the viewer is seeing when they watch it. Yeah. That makes sense. And that's where I'll be saying things and I'm or doing something and then like what I'm watching, I'm like that's not what I want. And then I'll freeze up. It's very weird when I'm filming. And then for people who haven't worked with me too much, they'll think like, I don't know, it's very weird. Like how I go about it. Because I'll just be doing whatever. Like lighting a firework. This is a thousand-hour fire. I'll go to light and I'll like freeze. Because in my head, I'm like, this I don't know. I don't like how that floater, how that shot like because I it's weird. I can perfectly picture what I'm filming by just looking at the camera and then putting myself through the lens of the camera while making content. I can do it at the same time. So you're like real time editing? In my video. Yeah. That's something that didn't at the start come natural to me. But in the last probably like five years, it's happened. And so I would say it's one of my greatest strengths, but I don't know how I developed it. But anytime I'm filming anything, like it's almost like the like right side of my brain, I just can just look at it and I see exactly what I'm filming. And I can just picture it. Well, that's probably recording the video, being the talent for the video, and then watching the editing and like analyzing your care for and do that over and over and over. Yeah, you do that when over you do thousand times. Yeah. You do the editing more than the being in front of the camera. So like you start to see yourself from that third person perspective. Exactly. Then maybe that actually helps with the nerves of it too. Like you see it as creating a video versus performing. Yeah. Yeah. I think so. You know, it's weird. I've never been nervous talking to a camera. It's harder for me to talk to a person that is to talk to a camera, which I feel like a lot of people say that though that are whatever make content. Right? Interesting. I've heard that so many times or maybe not. Maybe I'm just awkward and dumb. Maybe they're practiced. To me, it's, I mean, both are terrifying, but being in front of the camera about yourself is so much easier. Really? Yeah, so much. I've referred a million times over. But that's my whole life. Yeah. So it's just that's why it's interesting. Like you've spent more of your time talking to people. Yeah, it comes natural. And I talked to a piece of plastic. Oh, I guess you're talking to a person too. There's just then on the other side of the camera. Yeah, there's just a pixel on a screen. So, so cloning. How do you, how do you achieve that? Oh, yeah. That's right. This whole rabbit show. So I was showing him that I have a lot of people in a company who are able to think like me and basically make decisions like I would make if I was that like if you were asked, Hey, in this video, should we climb a mountain or should we dig a hole? Yeah. And like, you know, they would pick the same answer. I'd pick 90 plus percent of the times. And so like one example is Tyler who I was showing you when he was pitching stuff for content. And you could see like this. He was on point. And basically for just four or five years, we just spent an absurd amount of time together and worked on every single video together and we worked side by side. And same thing with my CEO James, he literally lived with me for a couple of years. I'm a big fan of just like finding people who are super obsessed and all in and A players that, you know, they really just want to be great. And they're just dumping everything I have in them. And then you were saying, because I'd love to find that and develop that you're saying you're basically for a long time, just said everything you were thinking to them. Exactly. Like James, the guy who's basically my right him and right now, for two years, he lived with me. And we probably talked on average of those two years, seven hours a day. I mean, every time I had a phone call, I'd don't on speaker and I'd let him listen. I'd anything. I was reading any content I was consuming. Like really just training his brain to think like me. So that way, he could just do things without my input, without me having to constantly watch over him or give him advice. And and that's where we've gotten like so for the first six months, he didn't do anything. He just studied me and studied everything I cared about and how I spoke and blah, blah. And then the next six months, he started taking on some responsibilities. And now he can just run the company and, you know, I don't ever really have to check it on him. Like most of the decisions he makes are exactly what I would do. And so I don't I call that cloning. I don't know what other people would, but it's just like finding people that are really obsessed and they just kind of really want it and just being like giving them an avenue to like get it if that makes any sense. Another way to see it is you're converging towards a common vision. And that makes like brainstorming much more productive. Yeah, it just makes it where I don't have to be so involved in everything because I just have these people I know will think like I will at least relatively close to it. So I can kind of almost be in multiple places at once per se. And so these things that, you know, I still approve every idea we film and you know, everything before we film it all the creative I prove it. But I don't have to like be in the weeds and nuances and do all this minor stuff. I can just let them handle it. I can just do the more macro things. I got a chance to sit in to a lengthy brainstorming session with Tyler and others. That was really cool. Can you talk about the process of that of people pitching ideas and you pitching alternatives or shutting down ideas and just going like plowing through ideas very kind of just like describing exactly what we did. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, but the ideas are really really good. It's just tossing out like different categories of ideas and then also fine tuning them to see like I know I changed like thinking about the titles and the stuff. I work so well off of inspiration. It's like it's something like give me anywhere. I don't know. Like a real space space. Yeah, like I went to space, you know, what happens if you love a newkin space or I went to the moon. I went to Mars. Right. Because you said that one word it was able to inspire me to come up with four ideas. And so that's just it's for me. If you the way to get a hundred million views on videos, you need something original creative, something people really need to see ideally never been done before all these like things. And so you need like if you want to consistently go super well, you need just a constant stream of ideas. And the only way I've really found that I can consistently come up with a hundred million views videos is to intake inspiration and then see what my brain outputs. And so that's kind of at its core foundation what I'm doing there. It's just like in taking a lot of random inspiration to see what spawns in my mind so I can output it. But the neural network of your brain is generating. The video, the title, the thumbnail, all like jointly. Exactly. And that only comes because I spent 10 years in my life just obsessively studying all that stuff because you I mean, it seems like you would literally potentially shut down a video just because you can't come up with a good title. Yeah, or a good thumbnail. Yeah, I mean, that's what happened to 70% of those in that pitch session. I was like, oh, what was one of them genius versus a hundred people or yeah, like maybe average intelligence versus genius. Yeah, I was like, what the heck is the thumbnail? Even if the title was good. Yeah, I mean, this so many, but yeah, people don't click, they don't watch. That's so interesting. But you developed over time the ability to kind of give it what, what makes for a good title? Short. Not just short. It's also, I mean, if someone reads it, or they like do they have to watch it? Is it just so intrinsically interesting that it's just going to fuck with them if they don't click on it, you know what I mean? So it doesn't have to be short, but it has to be like, you almost want to have a retention to word by word reading. Ideally, it's a title also that, you know, because the titles don't live in a vacuum, right? So it has to lead into the content. So ideally, the title represents content that you would want to watch for 20 minutes. So if it's a 20 minute video and the title is I stepped on a bug, it's not going to because it's all of it combined. The click rate is going to be much lower. I mean, then if it was like a five second video, people might click it. So you got to, like, even nuances of the length of the video, based against the title will affect whether people want to click it because sometimes they just all add up. I mean, it's that yes, ideally you want it below 50 characters because above 50 characters and certain devices, you run the chance of it going dot, dot, dot. So like, I took a light pole and I saw how many dollar bills I could stack on top and they would just go dot, dot, dot because it's too long and they can't finish it. And that's the worst thing because then people don't even know what they're clicking on. And so it's going to do even worse. Short, simple, ideally, and just so freaking interesting, they have to click. And it is a good segue into the content and it represents the length of the content. And there's probably stuff. It's hard to convert into words for you. Like, I stepped on a bug versus stepping on a bug versus Mr. B stepped on a bug versus that bug stepping video. So it's like, yes, the more extreme the opinion, typically the higher the click through rate, if you can like, uh, pay it off in the content, then it just super charges it. So like, well, so you have a kind of estimate of the extreme. Like, uh, this, this water, right? You're like, Fiji water sucks. Yeah, that would do fine. But if you said Fiji water, it's the worst water bottle. Or the worst water I've ever drank in my life. Yeah. Way more extreme opinion would do way better. You have to deliver. Yeah. But then you have to deliver because the more extreme you are, the more extreme you have to be in the video. Yeah. That's almost inspiration for you to step up. Yeah. But you can, you can be more extreme and a positive way. A lot of people, it's easier though. Positive, uh, negative clickbaits much easier than positive clickbait. It just is. It's so much easier to get negative clicks. And so a lot of people are just, in my opinion, you know, a little bit lazier and they just take the route like, Oh, well, this one gets the same about a click. And it's easier. Less effort. The positive one is doing a large number of numbers of something. Like, I spent this number of hours doing this. Well, whatever. If you just wanted to help people or, right, it's just harder to get 10 million views on a video helping people than it is to get 10 million views on a video tearing down a celebrity. You don't mean or whatever negative video you want to insert there. Well, that said, most of your videos are pretty positive. So what's, but not a lot of people do those kinds of videos because they're hard. Yeah, they're hard. Yeah. Some of that is giving away money, right? Yeah. Um, what's the secret to that? What's how do you do do that? Right? Yeah. Like, give away money or in a video that made it to make it compelling? Um, is it that so there's a number that is better than another number? Right? The higher numbers always better than the lower number. Yeah, I felt most part. And you know, it's interesting. Like, some videos will give away a million dollars. Some videos will give away half a million. There's not really, I guess so I'm retracting what I just said. I was more joking with that. But there's no difference whether I put 500 K or a million. There's probably not even really a difference between 100 K or a million. I haven't really looked into it. Like, some of our mostly videos are not us giving away a million dollars. And sometimes the million dollar videos just don't do as well as the other ones. So there is a certain point where a dollar amount is just a large dollar amount to an average human. And so I think that point is 100K. Like anything above 100K, the average human is just like, that's a lot of money. It doesn't, it doesn't 100K and a million like, doesn't really move the needle. That makes sense. Which that's a very nuanced piece of information that applies to very few people, but yeah. Well, no, I think applies as fascinating as fast as human. Our relationship with money is fascinating. Like, why is it so exciting to get? I mean, I, you know, the times I found like 20 bucks in the ground are like incredible. I know why. Why? Why are you so happy? Like, what exactly is so joyful about that? I mean, it depends where you are in life, what the situation is. Yeah, I don't know. There's also a gamified aspect to it. It's exciting. Yeah. Well, I get it. Like, why people want to see people win money? It's just interesting that past 100 grand, it doesn't really seem to make a difference. Like, it's the same basically. So you found that to be true with all the money, you've given away that just didn't click the rate like, obviously in terms of someone receiving it, yeah, a million dollars changes to life drastically more. Like, that's the difference. Like, oh, if you wanted to, you could really quit your job. Suppose 100 K is like, not really. You probably do like a scientific study, like a formula, giving away money to click through rate. Yeah, there could be some kind of denture to turn it. Definitely. The returns level automatically after 100 K. That's basically the premise. What about 10,000? No, there's 10, 100,000. It's funny because this is such a small niche thing. But yeah, 100,000 does it from what I see in our videos get more clicks than 10,000, but the difference between 100,000 million is just so little. I just, I think big number, big number to a lot of people will pass that point. Yeah. So for 100,000, you can like, you're giving average salary. You can probably live for a year, given with a out average salary in America. So that's like a big, that feels something. Yeah, I think it's also just more when they read the title. It's just like, it's a lot of zeros. It's a lot of fuck loads of zeros. Okay, click. Yeah. Oh, man, that's fascinating. So on the thumbnail side, again, that's going to be much harder to say, probably. But you know, offline, you know, I got a chance to look at a bunch of thumbnails. And it's fascinating, which ones do well, which ones don't. Is there something you could say about what are the elements of thumbnail that work well? Is this also deeply in- Well, that's where, yeah, it's the same thing. Like, how do you cook good food? But it's easier if you pull up a thumbnail and I could be like, that's why that's good. That's why that's bad. That's like an example would be like, one of my friends, I was, he just uploaded a video recently. And I called him and I was like, what is this? Because he's a very, very smart guy. And in the thumbnail, he's getting chased by cops, but the cops were wearing yellow vests. So they didn't look at cops. So I was like, oh, why are the cops in your thumbnail wearing yellow vests? It's like, that makes it so much more boring. And he was like carrying a flag, but the pole and the color of the flag were the same color. So it was like, it's a little harder to see the flag. I was like, also, you're wearing like a shirt with like five different colors. Like, so it's like, it's hard to tell what even what your outline is. And then in the background, there are cars. And I was like, well, if you have cops chasing you, why not make the cars cop cars? And, you know, and it's like, because in my head, I'm like, dang, if he just did those like four or five things, the video probably would have got like seven X the views. How much iteration? Because I also got a chance to see the number of iterations you do on a, I don't know, just a brand of those. It's a problem now. It's an addiction. Is it? So you kind of, there's a lot of the versions are really good. Yeah. How do you know what to like stuff? I love how you, when we pulled up that the burger one and we were flipping through them. You're like, that's really good. I was like, oh, that's version like one of like a thousand. But even the sketch, the idea was good. Like already even the original idea is strong. Yeah. So we, one of our coming up videos, we made the Wldz largest plant based burger. And the thumbnail we were thinking is like me standing beside the burger because it's six feet tall. That's why he's talking about. So like just picture a giant six foot tall burger, super wide, thousands of pounds. And then I'm beside it. And then it's like eating the Wldz largest burger. Like you, that's just something you have to click. Like, so you were saying like, how would you describe a good thumbnail like that? You know what I mean? Like, but I think you said the one I noticed first that was good where you were very small in it. Relatives, the, and you didn't like that one. I need to come forward a little bit. And also the photo we took was just my upper body. So they photo manipulative and creating my legs photoshopped. That's why I said I don't like it because my right leg was a little like off. It was like bent the wrong way. Does the physics of the thumbnail have to even make sense? I mean, you can just like exaggerate the head size and all that comes out. Yeah, 100%. Yeah, things don't have to be relative. Yeah. You can have a car in the back on a beat three times the size because yeah, everyone in my thumbnails, my face is in the, you know, left side very big. So brand recognition. So just people know, oh, especially because now that a lot of people copy our videos, it's just nice to like, you know, everyone else might make thumbnails like this, but this is mine. And obviously we usually over deliver and do bigger stuff. Would you recommend to other creators that want to make it big and they see Mr. Beast and look up to you to copy some elements of you or to really try to be unique. Unique. 100% unique. You're not the next Mr. Beast clone codes. He was weird saying that third person, but whatever is not going to do what I'm doing better, they're going to just invent their own life. Like, you're just not going to do what I do better than me. You know, I have so many, I literally have the best people in the world working here. And I reinvest everything I make even to this day. You know what I mean? Like it's absurd. The amount of money it's spent on content. And I don't care. I'll just stop sleeping and I'll just film every other day. Like, you're just not going to beat me at my own game. And that's fine. You should it. Like I didn't get where I am by just beating someone else at the own game. I just fell my own lane and innovated and adapted. And so, yeah, there's a lot of people that do copy me and it's fine. Whatever do it. But just know you're not going to get to where I am doing that. And so I advise you don't. You give away a lot of the secrets. Basically everything about how you operate. Is there, I don't hold anything back. Go for it. How do you think about that? Because that's also, that's pretty rare. I think, and this is definitely not, most people in my stance, I don't think would take this or my position would take this stance. But I see every other YouTuber or person on social media, even is we're also focused super heavily on YouTube. But last year we were also the most followed TikTok creator in the world as well. Actually, we're most subscribed to YouTube channel and the most followed TikTok account in the world. But in general, I just see everyone else as collaborators, not competitors. I don't think giving advice and helping other creators do well in any way harms me. And I think it only brings more value to my life. How was it jumping on TikTok and trying to understand that platform from scratch? Yeah. So, from being a successful YouTuber to understand it, totally different algorithm. Yeah. Funnesty different algorithm. It's interesting. Well, not even just the algorithm, just the content. Like I'm going from basically 15 minute short films to one sub one minute vertical content. It's a whole different just ballpark. And so the first little while I was doing TikTok, it was just kind of figuring out, how what does Mr. V's look like in this short form content? But recently we really started to catch our stride and come up with some original concepts and figure out how to innovate over there just like we did on YouTube. Because I didn't want it to just be shitty YouTube videos. Yeah. You know, and so like an example is we played the rock for 100k and rock favorite scissors and the loser had to donate 100k to charity. We did, we went to random people on a campus and we offered them. So I said, I'll give you $100. If you flat a pair is to give me a baguette and then they said, no, I was like, I'll give you $300. If you flat a pair is to give me a baguette and I was expecting this person to say no. And it go up to like 10 grand and he's like, yes. And so he flew to Paris, got a baguette and brought it back and gave it to me. And that across everything got like 450 million views. And it, because it's just really cool to just see this random guy get on a plane spend a day in Paris and we cut it up real nicely and bring it back. And so we're starting to find just tons of original content over there. But it seems like an epic video to make for a one minute. Exactly. No one on short forms doing it. That's the thing. It's like it's just so funny because like TikTok's been big for a while now years. And then you know, as we started to really figure out things on the YouTube channel and get it cranking where I have some free time. We set our sites on TikTok and like, okay, what are people not doing? How do we make it better? Put it more effort? Make it good. And we did the same thing we did at YouTube, just different over on TikTok. And it worked. And now we're the faster growing or most followed TikTok account in 2022. And it's just funny that no one else did that. And you're not afraid to do epic stuff, which is also during the brainstorming. Some of the ideas you're like, that's better as a short. That's crazy. Yeah. Can you remember one? Because I remember I said that a bunch, but I can't think of one. All I remember is that there were like epic videos. Like really, you're going to do that for a one minute video. Yeah. That's crazy. So like, are you posting similar content to a YouTube short as a TikTok? Yeah, those were just double up. It's just hard. You know, what's actually pretty fascinating and people who do social media listening to this will probably find this pretty interesting is picture like the contribution meta three years ago versus now, where you can make sub one minute vertical content and it go viral on TikTok and go viral on YouTube shorts, go viral on Instagram, reals, it goes viral on Facebook, it goes Reddit, you know, you swipe through vertical content now and Twitter when you click on a video and you flip through it. So this is actually very weird. This is the first time in the history of I guess, Western social media that one form of content could actually go super viral on every single platform. It's never been like that before. So they're going viral individual. They're like, I can post something on I can post something on TikTok that will get a hundred million views and then post on shorts and it'll get 200 million views and then post it on Instagram and it get 50 million views and then, you know, I haven't yet, but you know, you can then turn around and tweet it and it get tens of millions of views and you can post on Reddit and it get tens of millions of views and and Facebook can get tens of millions of views and that's that's just what's in the thing. Three years ago, Twitter didn't have when because a lot of you probably don't even know this, but when you tap on a video now and you swipe down, it just turns into TikTok. That wasn't a thing even a year ago. Reddit, that wasn't a thing a year ago, probably two years ago. That wasn't a thing on Instagram. Three years ago, that wasn't a thing on YouTube, right, with YouTube shorts. So this is all new and I don't it's weird. I haven't heard a single person talk about it, but this is the first time where content can actually go viral on every single platform and you don't have to write or film a video for Facebook, film a 12 minute video for YouTube, film a sub 60 second video for TikTok, write a tweet for Twitter and post this on Reddit. You can just do the same thing on every platform. And the fact that your content has gone viral on multiple platforms regularly means that virality is not accidental. Or sometimes it can be of course, but it's just not. It can be engineered. It's yeah, so many people say it's luck and they're like, you're just lucky or this or that, but what do we have to probably like a thousand videos over 10 million views? Like we don't ever have a dud. Like you can call it luck, but I think it can be trained. I counsel YouTubers all the time and show them how to go from getting a couple million views a month to 10 millions views a month very easily. And for even certain ones like, just one of my friends like he was just really struggling. And so I just started showing him basically everything I know and just doing like once every week, sometimes once every two weeks calls, anyone from $10,000 a month on YouTube to over 400,000, just doing these little counseling calls. And so I mean, people can make excuses all they want and say it's just lockers say, you know, well, anyways, I don't even want to quote all the other stuff, but it's just it is it is a teachable skill. It's a learnable skill. You can study your way to consistently make viral videos to my house monitor channels. Even if you have zero subscribers, you could if you actually studied hard enough. And like basically if you knew what I knew and some of these so I don't sound so arrogant also like some of these other friends that have that I'd say are the smartest people of all when it comes to content creation online. If you had the knowledge that was in our heads, you could do it very easily. I see people do it all the time. And what's even more interesting is I go on podcasts and I say everything I know and these people are also very open. Some of them I know it's all out there. And a lot of people instead of just studying that and trying to absorb and apply it in their own way, they're just like, no, it's just like, you know, so you do lay it all out there, but I got to push back to one interesting thing. I think a crucial component of your success is the idea stage, the idea generation. The brainstorm I heard today, but getting really good at generating ideas. So it's not it's not just the selection of the thumbnail and the title that creative process. It's also just the the engine of generating really good ideas. Of course. And getting that I mean, I would say that it's probably the thing that needs to be trained the most for most creators, right? That they're they just don't put enough ideas on paper. Yes, but also a lot of creators also just don't, you know, which I didn't either for the longest time just didn't don't make good enough content, you know, content that's worthy of getting 10 million views in the idea or the execution of the idea. Both. I mean, like think about how many people just make videos, they film them under 20 minutes and they don't really put any effort into it and like, you know, it's like my first 500 videos didn't deserve to get a million views. Like there's a reason they did. They're terrible, you know, but at the time I thought they did, right? And I'm in the mindset of a lot of small YouTubers or I thought those videos deserve the million views and I thought the hour of them hated me, but I'm watching back now and I can tell you exactly why the videos are fucking horrible, you know what I mean? Well, so what was the breakthrough for you to start realizing to start having a self-awareness, you know, about these videos aren't good enough? You're probably still going through that. You're probably still growing to see like every six months, you should look back and hate your videos or at least see things you could improve and be like, oh, I could have done this better that better. If not, then you're not learning quick enough. In my opinion, at least, where's the source of that learning even for you now? Just looking at metrics. I mean, I just got back from a mastermind where I just got like, you know, 10 of the smartest people I knew and we just locked ourselves in a cabin and taught each other stuff constantly every day, not every day now. Probably every other day I go on a walk and I just call random people. I'll just say, yeah, teach me something. And I mean, it's just, you just have to have a never-ending thirst for learning. Like that's very imperative, especially if you want, like if you want to get on top and then stay on top. The only way to do it is just to constantly be learning or someone who is learning is just going to have a leg up on you in the knowledge game. And we're kind of stuff for you because you've talked about offline that you just love learning of all kinds. It doesn't matter. But in terms of videos, are you studying videos, are you studying? Recently, not as much. I'm more to get to the videos I want. I have to build this business and scale up and higher. So more of my recent time has been like my teenage years were spent studying virality and studying content creation. Now I'm studying how to build a content company so I can actually produce the crazy ideas I want to produce, if that makes any sense. So yeah, on that, the business side, we talked about hiring. Do you have trouble firing people? No, I'm pretty sure almost every person, yeah, actually every person I've ever fired, we just give them severance. And I like to see it more as it's no ill-will. Like if I fired you, if there's some other job you want me to help you get, I'll DM them on Twitter. Like, you know, if you want to go work for, I don't know, insert whatever MTV, give me someone to DM, I'll DM them. Like, you know, I try to make it more like a transition and do whatever we can to make it as easy as possible. Something was just not working for you because you want people like you said, super passionate. Because at the end of the day, if you hold someone that you onto someone that you don't see being here in 10 years, you're just doing them with a disservice. You're just giving them more in grain, more enrooted in where they are. And the sooner you do it and help them move on to their like new life, the better. Given all the wisdom you have now, if you were to give advice to somebody, if you were to start over again, you had no money. What would be the first 10 videos you tried to make on a new channel? I guess that's advice for a new person. And nobody knows you. Yeah, nobody knows me. Yeah, I have a mask on. And you also, I guess, don't have the wisdom. But if I don't have what I have in my head, then I would say just fail. Like just a lot of people get analysis paralysis and they'll just sit there and they'll plan their first video for three months. And yeah, I'm any of you listening. If you, especially if you have zero viewers on your channel, your first video is not going to give you. Period. It's not your first 10 are not going to give you. I can very comfortably say that. So stop sitting there and thinking for months and months on end and just get to work and start uploading. Like all you need to do this applies to people that not upload videos, but have dreams of being a YouTuber is make a hundred videos and improve something every time. Do that. And then on your 100 first video, we'll start talking like maybe you can get some views, but you know, your first 100 or going to say, there are very freak cases like vice-acosia or image-amulant who have really good personalities and it doesn't take them so as many videos. And it's just like people who are seven foot five and making an MBA. Like, yes, there are freak cases you can find. But for the average person like us, you know, who don't have these exceptional personalities and, you know, backgrounds and filmmaking, just make a hundred videos, improve something each time and then talk to me on your 100 first video. Well, the improve something is time is the tricky one. How do you improve something each time? The second one just, I don't know, put more effort into the script. The third one, try to learn a new editing trick. The fourth one, try to figure out a way that you can have better inflections in your voice. The fifth one, try to, you know, study a new thumbnail tip and implement it. The sixth one, try to figure out a new title. There's infinite ways. That's the beauty of content creation online. There's literally infinite ways from the coloring to the frame rate to the editing to the filming, to the production, to the jokes, to the pacing, to every little thing can be improved and they can never not be improved. There's literally no such thing as a perfect video. So if you knew everything, you know, now, but no money, step one, would I just brainstorm like, okay, I don't have money. What are some viral things? Like, I mean, the first thing that comes from my mind is something as simple as when I count to a hundred thousand, which is what I did do and I was poor. And like that work. But like, what's something like that I could do that would be even more, I'd send you a guy. As part of the brainstorm, you would throw out a lot of ideas. People would throw out a bunch of ideas and one of the questions is this even doable, right? Yeah. First off, come up with ideas you think would do well and then ask yourself later if they're doable. Yeah. Because there's different ways you can accomplish something. Don't be cynical about the durability of stuff. Yeah, because there really are so many different ways you can accomplish a goal. Like, when we give away an island, like we gave a hundred million subscriber an island. Yeah, you know, you can't find private islands that, you know, don't look like shit for less than $10 million. So this isn't doable, right? All right. The idea doesn't exist. Not doable. Exit off. But then, you know, you dig into it and you, you know, find different alternatives and you find, okay, what if we just buy a two million dollar island that sucks and then spend a million dollars, you know, importing some sand, let's build a beach, let's import 300 trees, let's build a little bit of canals, cut some paths, boom. Now it's a really nice island, but it's actually affordable because we don't have $10 million spent on a video, but we can afford to spend three and a half and lose whatever a million dollars on that video. So like, that's an example of like, yeah, if you just went off the gut test, you'd be like, this isn't doable. You know, every island is $10 million or screwed. Like, if we go cheaper, it's just a terrible island. No. And so if you like, there are so many different ways you can achieve what you want. You really got to push through notes, which not a lot of people do. You have to have like a more of a dominant personality and just a willingness to, when people tell you it's not possible, just actually go through all the variables and eliminate them all yourself. Have a stubbornness and a resilience to failure maybe. For what we do and creators online, it's very imperative that you have that a no isn't a no to you. Like, you really have to like think and just like we take a personality test and like just having a dominant personality is a better indicator that when someone tells you, oh, there's still way you're going to build a brick wall for under 100 grand, you know, you'll be like, okay, and then still go check the next 10 vendors. And you know, figure it out. Yeah. What advice would you give to an already established channel, like with one, two, three, four million subscribers, how to like 10 exit, like increase it? Without losing maybe. Yeah, that's where it's very like channel by channel. You can't give general advice. Okay. Yeah. Because if I do millions of creators are going to see this and then they're going to do it and I'm going to fuck them over. Oh, I say, so let's say I'd like two million subscribers on this podcast. Yeah. Like, how would you 10x that without sacrificing what it is? 10x your stuff doesn't matter. So we you've talked about with success. Yeah. It's different for everyone. Like is 10xing your definition of success? No. Well, then it's going to write off the bad. It's hard because if you don't give a shit about 10xing, it's even harder to 10x. He does this because he likes helping people. That's one thing I've found throughout this day. Every time I talk data, it's so funny with him because it's like, you know, you could do this to get more views and he'll just be like playing. Like that doesn't register anything. And he just like doesn't care. Which is it's really I'm really nervous about that. I'm really nervous about the numbers affecting because it's so fun. Oh, yeah. It's so fun to focus on the numbers. And I'm really worried about that. But at the same time, you should be cognizant of that because you've created not just some of the most watch videos, but some of the most amazing videos ever. So there's a strong correlation there. It's not like you're selling your soul to make a highly viewed video. It's actually, if you look at the metrics, it helps you understand what is compelling and not. And so I feel like I am, I feel like there's some value to investigate what work when people tune on and when not to be more data driven, even on podcasts, but I'm really afraid of that. On the flip side, I think part of the appeal is that you don't care about that kind of stuff. But there could be stuff that doesn't have to do anything with that and has to do with stylistic choices of lighting and cameras or maybe with, for example, topics. Yeah. You know, like even what you've asked me here is like different than what most people ask me. Yeah. So it could be the, I mean, and they'd be nice to understand that. But again, I'm worried about polluting the process. This is a true case of its your own intuition. Like you know your viewers better than anyone else. It's whatever. See, I'd like to push back on that. I really don't. You do. I do. Well, name one person who knows your viewers better than you. Somebody that looks at numbers of podcasts. No, you know your viewers. You know, you're the only, how many episodes have you done? Uh, 350. Exactly. But I'm not paying it. You're the only one who's watched every second of all 300 videos. I'm probably. That's just, just not know. Well, I haven't, but the, because you did it. So you do know what's in album. It's your content. I'm telling you you do. And this is just one of those moments where you're an intelligent guy and you just have to trust your like instincts. Like just think what is the typical ex viewer and what do they want? I don't think like that. My tip. But that's all you would have to do. And whatever your gut tells you, that would be the best guess. You don't know what the typical viewer is though. I don't, I don't, because I should investigate that. It'll be very, very difficult. And then you have to start looking at the numbers. You have to start to like consider the demographics. The only way I know that anybody even watches it is because I'll sometimes run into people like when I run along the river and they'd be like, I love you. Like it's like, okay, well, that's that's the data point. And they're like cool people. But you know, I don't know, that I don't have any other. Um, it's difficult, man. It's difficult to know. No, it's difficult to know who listens to boxes, the difficulty. Do you have a sense of who's, I mean, like you're so huge that everybody watches. Yeah. Uh, but no, I still do. I'd say if you were to just put a gun to my head and you're, you're like, all right, we're gonna pick a random person that watched your last video and you have to like roughly guess what they are. And if you're not close, we'll kill you. I would say probably like a teenager that plays video games. Like some, something like that would be probably the typical one. And then there are people that are maybe a little bit younger. A lot of people are older as well. But in a random, random sample size, yeah, it's probably like a male boy that plays video games. Like that's the best way I've described it. But I don't try to pertain to him. I just make whatever I think is interesting and good content. And this is what we were talking about before, even though hypothetically 35 to 40% of my audience is women, which is, you know, less than a majority, if we get a hundred million views of video, that's still 30 to 40 million females that watch every video, which is probably the largest, uh, you know, views per video for women on the whole platform, which you wouldn't think that, you know, uh, like I can't think of a single other creator that gets more women to watch their videos than that. Um, and so it's just anything, even like people above the age of 30, even if it's only like three or four percent, that's still three to four percent of a hundred million views is a lot of people that age. So we, we hit a large group of, uh, of kind of every demographic. That makes any sense. So what, what if we look at other, maybe more challenging kinds of channels or not, but if we look at educational, for example, like lectures, or if we look, yeah, educational, it can be short videos like how would you 10X that, like, uh, something on robotics and biology on science and engineering and all of that. That's more educational focus. We would honestly just have to pull that, because it's the same way, if you went to Gordon Ramsay, he said, how would a new cook cook better? You know, it's like, you got even then that's not even a specific, like you have to go channel by channel. You really do, or I'm giving horrible advice, because if there was, you just go and rules, everyone do it. You know what I mean? Like if there's these magical little principles, how quickly can, when you look at a channel, can you kind of, bear give advice? Yeah, it's, it's like surface love at the start and then the more, if we watch 10 videos, I feel like I'd have a good profile and I could tell you, in my opinion, you know, especially once I look at the analytics and I get more ingrained in like, okay, the typical viewers this, they're from here, here's how they're feeling, you know, because there are people who make videos for rednecks and like the rednecks taste of content, just so much different than obviously women watching make a videos, which are so much different than, you know, teenage boys watching a Minecraft video, they're just all different. So the biggest thing you have to do is put your heads, your head in the head space of the viewer and see the content, how they would, because if you just try to only give your taste, which is what a lot of people do and things from your perspective, it's very biased and it's just not going to work for everyone. And that's actually how you do more harm than good, which is something I'm very careful of. Yeah, but at the same time, it's generating a lot of ideas. I think the first time I've talked to you was on clubhouse, actually. Yeah, I mentioned something about robots and like almost immediately went to generating a bunch of ideas around your box. Oh yeah, it's just 100 robots versus 100 humans. Yeah, I'm marking a robot throw potato. I think your idea, like the first idea was, because you just said so many ideas I never even thought of, but it's, it shows the value of basically brainstorming with people that think differently. But at the end of the day, my ideas were probably, you know, might lean towards some people a little bit younger than your audience, like some of the stuff. Yeah, there's still ideas. Like I think the first one you said, because we're talking about quadruped robot dogs, you said to replace a biological dog with a robot dog and see if the owner notices something. You were just quickly brainstorming ideas of like, how this is years ago, I remember it. Yeah, which is just, I mean, it's like, oh yeah, I never really thought about that kind of sort of, it's the basic, the tension between what does it take for robot and AI system to replace the biological systems that we, the biological creatures that we love in our lives. Yeah. And but like that was like the, the pace of idea generation was the thing that struck me today. And in general, it's like, that's how you get at good videos. As you keep, keep, it makes, it's much easier to make a video around a good idea. Obviously, than a bad one, you just send yourself up for success. Okay. So that's for 10X and already popular channel. What's the hardest number? You said the numbers that matters click through rate, average, view duration and surveys. What's the hardest number to optimize for? Probably surveys. You know, do you have any, do you have an insight into the surveys at all? No, not really. But if you just click on a bunch of random videos online, you'll eventually get a survey. What's this video transformative? Heartwarming, inspiring. What people rate does make a difference? And it's like, you can give people a click of it. You can get them to watch it. But you can't really fake whether they're not there satisfied. Like they don't lie the service. You know, maybe one person here there might troll. But once you aggregate enough, it's a pretty clear telltale to video. So either you're making a great video or you're not. What is it minimizing the non-regretability? Yeah. I think Elon tweeted that's what he tried to do on Twitter. Twitter. That's interesting. That's basically the survey metric. How happy you are that you've been using the platform. Yeah. Elon tweeted, we want to limit the amount of regrettable minutes people spend on Twitter. And the first thing I thought is like that's something YouTube already has a lot. Like their whole survey system when feedback loop. How tough is it to take on YouTube, you think? Like for Twitter? Yeah, for Twitter, for anybody else. I mean, it's going to be basically impossible. I mean, YouTube's not going anywhere. And I don't know. I don't think anyone's going to do what YouTube does better than them. At least not in the next 10 years. You asked on Twitter, would you rather have $10 million or 10 million subscribers on YouTube? What would your own answer be at various stages in your career? If I had nothing, I would say $10 million. Because with $10 million, you can hire some people and pump out content with like a million or two get 10 million subscribers and then keep the other 8 million. So that's if you believe in your ability to grow a channel. If you don't believe in your ability to grow a channel, then you shouldn't take the 10 million subscribers because you're just going to kill the channel. So the 10 million is definitely a better question. Would you rather have a million dollars or 10 million subscribers? That's where it gets a little tricky. Because now it's like, hmm, a million dollars' life changing amount of money. But if you see what I know what you're doing, you probably make a million dollars off of 10 million subscribers on your channel. But it is a little bit of risk. A million dollars might not be enough to build a strong team. Because you don't know how to do it. So you might waste all of that money. Yeah. Or they just keep it and retire. Yeah. Okay. That's true. Yeah. Because 10 million is just so high. It's like just never work again. Who cares? For the average human, that's so much money. It's interesting to me also to the value of the subscriber versus the value of the dollar. I suppose how valuable is the subscriber for what percentage of the videos? Like how active are the subscribers in watching the video? For you. That's hard. I don't know. I was actually thinking more about the subscriber to dollar. Like if someone has 10 million subscribers, have they made 10 million dollars? I don't know why that kind of popped in my head. It's an interesting thought. Do you ever, when you analyze videos or do you ever analyze videos like we've talked about offline of other videos across the YouTube in general to understand trends, understand social behind all your not all, but a lot of the questions are analytic space. Yeah. It's so cool. I love it. I mean, it's just a giant social experiment, right? Like what people like to watch, what people share. Yeah. It's like a fascinating look. So like I said before, what percentage of your audience do you think care about this kind of stuff? Like this deeply about YouTube analytics. I think a large amount care about curiosity and exploration of interesting ideas. So in that sense, yeah, this was fitted. I love it. This is funny. And this isn't me like trying to make, I love you. I love you too. Magnus one and even your hero one was really good. A bunch of other ones. But I think we're getting to the point now where only analytics junkies would want to keep here more analytics talk. And the normie is probably like, they've had their dose of YouTube talk for the next three years. Maybe I'm wrong. Hey, comment if I'm wrong. I could be. I don't know your audience. See, this is where you would tell me shut up. I know my audience. You dumbass. And I don't at all. I actually, I just follow the threat of curiosity. And I think there's just a lot of curious humans in the world. And to me, it's like, so the question about analytics is the question of basically stepping away, stepping outside of yourself and thinking, why the hell do I like TikTok so much? Why do I like Twitter so much? Why do I like YouTube so much? And getting, even if you're not a creator, getting an insight into that is really interesting. It's like, what? Because because all these platforms are fundamentally changing the nature of content. People are reading books less. They're probably going to be watching movies less and less. They're probably going to be watching Netflix less and less. Do you ever think about the sort of the darker side of YouTube and with shadow banning, censorship and all the kind of topics, especially if you see it in other platforms like Twitter that that Elon recently highlighted the shadow banning that was happening. And in general, the censorship that was happening in those platforms, do you think about the role of centralized control, which information isn't or isn't made available through search and discovery? I'll be honest. I never really think about it. You just try to make fun videos that I'm kind of wearing my own lane, but it's not like that I don't just specifically think about it. I just like a lot of stuff in general. I can't just kind of my own lane thinking about my own stuff. But you know, now you're asked, I'm curious, what are your thoughts on YouTube in that case? Well, I'm generally against centralized censorship or shadow banning. Shadow banning is the worst one because not that the goal of creating a healthy platform where you're having great conversations and videos that are not spreading misinformation, that sounds like an admirable goal. But that's too difficult of a job for centralized entity. That's too big of an... Yeah, and when there's the misinformation stuff and then there's also just like the videos where they do something that causes what happened back there, the... were at apocalypse, you know, a lot of creators revenue plummets because people are doing videos that advertisers don't seem acceptable and then now all these big advertisers are pulling. And the little guys are getting hit because AdWrace dropped by 30%. And the person who just put his job to go full-time contribution now can't sustain it. So it's also... It's like a lot of different variables as well. That makes it so complicated. Well, I think the big thing is transparency, especially around shadow banning for people... I agree. On shadow banning, you should be transparent. You should let people know. Obviously, there has to be some type of controls. People can't just post whatever. And so if you're pulling those levers, they should at least know. Yes, so they know how to improve their content. They can understand it. Exactly. If it's a wrong shadow banning, like as a society that we should not shadow ban this kind of content, that means... Exactly....you should be publicly discussing it and having that. Because if it's not known, then it's just kind of like, well, then who's pulling the strings and like, how do we know they're not just manipulating things to get whatever message they want out there and silence other ones? Yeah, and there could be sort of in the background, government influence, which is where actual freedom of speech comes into play that the government should not have any control or be able to put pressure on censorship of speech. And it gets weird if none of that is being... There's no transparency around it. That's it. But to be fair, that's a huge responsibility. The amount of content that YouTube is uploaded on YouTube that is shared by YouTube, viewed by YouTube. But even more of a reason why it would probably make sense to be transparent, because then people can help fact check it. That's right. But that requires building a platform that makes that easy, right? To make fact checking easy, to make the Twitter now has like being able to share context and all that kind of stuff, that crowdsource it. Crowdsource is the way Wikipedia crowdsource it. I mean, there's... Right. And then you open a random Wikipedia article. But like, you know, people criticize Wikipedia, because there is a political lean to the editors of Wikipedia and then they get the some articles that definitely have a bias to them and all that kind of stuff. It's a difficult problem. It's a difficult problem to solve that ultimately, as much as possible, it would be nice for the viewer to have control of that versus the entity that's hosting it. So for the viewer to decide... I'm just going to make cool videos that... Yeah. You know, let's go to Antarctica again. How was that? How is going to... You just came back from Antarctica. I watched the video. That was fun. That was a really fun video. There's a lot of things I can comment about that. But what was the hardest part of making that video? The hardest part was just getting out there. It's just so remote. And you know, you land the plane on just this ice runway. And it's so sketchy. And then once the plane takes off, you're just there. You're the most remote place in the planet. And it's just very breathtaking. I don't... If you have the chance to ever go to Antarctica, I would recommend it. It was probably like the... In the video, we climbed a mountain. That wasn't named so we can name it. And like standing on top of that mountain and just seeing... Kind of like nothing. And because once you get outside the outskirts and you get deep in Antarctica, there's no penguin. So nothing lives there. I don't. And so there's just nothing. In every direction, it's just snow. And these crazy beautiful mountains and some of them stick into the clouds. And if you go during summertime, the sun never goes down. The sun's up 24-7. And it's just like spinning in circles at the top of the planet or whatever. It looks like the top. Yeah, you guys come with this several times. How beautiful. Yeah. And so it's just... Yeah, it's just very beautiful. What about shooting itself? Like the technical aspects of shooting it? Oh, I mean, well, so for the... Somehow we lucked out one of the days. It was like the warmest day in like forever. That's been in Antarctica. It was like, it was positive degrees. But at certain parts it's also like negative 20, negative 30. And that's where the cameras you constantly have to be switching out the batteries and heating them up and like putting them basically in like your pants or they'll just get way too cold. And we were prepared for much worse. But it ended up being much better than we thought. So for that video, but in general, maybe some other challenging videos, how do you go from the idea stage to the actual execution to the final video? Can you take me through like a full process of like we're talking to Boston crazy wild ideas today? How do you go from that to a final video where you click publish? Well, I mean, obviously first things first you have to get the idea. And then it just depends. I mean, pick any video you can think about my channel. I can take you through it. Well, what about the... In a circle? You have to stay in a circle for 100 days. Yeah, so for that one, step one. One of the most popular. Yeah, that video did really well. So we promise that we have to... This is where you get really into the nuances of the company because we have a lot of videos going on. You can't just in a vacuum be like, all right, we're not doing anything for 100 days, we're only filming this. So step one is we had to build an independent crew that could actually do that for 100 days. That way, everyone else could keep working on the normal videos and not just screw everything out. So step one, you build that team. Okay, we got the team. Now what do we need? Well, to do this, we need probably like 10 cameras, at least rolling at all times. So we're probably going to need to get a trailer and hook up a bunch of storage and stuff to just carry out the sheer volume of footage we're going to have. And so get a trailer, set up the cameras, go on the field, paint a circle. Now we need a house, go buy a house, bring it out there. And then it's like, oh, wait, I think it'd be funny if I brought the house in on the intro. But you know, find a crane that can lift up a house so I can drive it in and drop it in the intro. And that's like an iterative process where you're like, okay, this would be fun here. So it's not all up front these. Yeah, I feel it would be, but as you kind of see things, you get inspired and then you think of more and more. And there's to be better with a crane. Yeah, it'd be better if I dropped out of the house. Yeah, that was crazy. That you decided to do that. So fearless in the kind of crazy stuff you would need to do. Exactly. What I'm a broken record, but whatever makes the best video possible. Yeah, that's that's all you focus on. Okay, so what about the delegation of like who gets to what are the camera man? Like the people operating the cameras? What, uh, who's responsible for different things? Is it like a distributed process? Well, that's where whoever the lead camera would be on that video, which is decided that one because we shot over a hundred days. We didn't a lot of it was just Sean and the guy who was in the circle just blogging. I'm just getting my camera and yeah, and he figured out and then we'd have like for him just set hours each day that a cameraman would come. So if he had any content, he needed extra hands instead of just having someone on standby 24 seven, it made more sense to do set hours. Nice. Um, and, uh, yeah, it was, it was hard, but you know, it's funny and hindsight. It sounds so simple. You know, and I guess like the more, because I want to relatively simple, I guess because it's a low number of people. Yeah, the hard part about that is just the time. Like, you know, I checked in on them so many different days and it's like an hour here, two hours there, two hours there. Over a hundred days adds up to be a ton of time. And even then like, you know, if you have a 10 person crew, you know, paying them daily rates for a hundred days, it just all that adds up. What about like the hundred versus hundred hundred adults versus 100 kids? What was the, what was bringing that to life? That seems like exceptionally challenging. Yeah, basically the thought process was we did a hundred kids versus our hundred boys versus hundred girls. Yeah, people loved it. Honestly, I didn't think they'd like it as much as they did video did really, really well. So the second I saw that video was crushing, I was like, all right, we're doing it again. But last time we did it, we did in our studio. So we built a giant room, put a hundred girls in it. Sounds bad when I explain like this. And then a giant room put a hundred boys. Yeah. And we're like, after 100 hours, whichever room has the most people will give them half a million dollars. So did well. So we're like, all right, we're going to do it again. So we threw out all these different ideas. It was like 100 football players versus 100 cheerleaders, 100 this, 100 that, 100 prisoners versus 100 cops. So just crazy as ideas. And we settled on 100 kids versus 100 adults. And then the next step was like, how do we make it better? The kids versus adults are the, sorry, the boys versus girls the first one we did was inside. And the problem was every time it was night when we did these long time lapses, you couldn't see the sun go up and down. So we're like, okay, this time I want to do it outside. So I the cubes are outside. And instead of doing circles, we want to make them cubes. And then, you know, it's figure out. Do we want that? Yeah, just those videos came up at least today as ones that are like really complicated in terms of the audio in terms of how it's filming it. Yeah, that's the problem. We had a lot of audio issues because in the first one, we didn't have a roof on it. The second one, there was a roof. So there's a lot of reverb, which then in editing made it brutal. Like half the shots weren't usable and it really screwed us over. So we had a deal out of Frankensteining and the editing to make up for basically my ignorance. So you mentioned that you were surprised how well that that one did. A lot of creators talk about getting depressed when the videos don't do as well as they kind of expect it. There's a kind of feeling you can get really worn out by that. Do you do yourself feel that and also do you have advice for others that feel this? Yeah, it's weird because I am a number scam, but also it used to. It used to very much, especially when I was like betting everything I had on a video when it did bad. I was devastated. I was crying. I'd be depressed for days and it really would have a severe impact in my mood, but I don't know. It doesn't really matter. It's a video that's better just look at it and I'm like, oh, why did this video do bad? Probably, oh, there's a little retention dip there. I don't think people like the thumbnail. Maybe we should switch it. I just look at it objectively unemotional and then just move on. I feel like that's a much healthier way of going about it. If a creator is listening, that is the ideal way to respond to a video that's doing bad. Just remove emotion from the equation and just look at it and figure out how you can improve the next one. Is there tricks to being able to detach yourself from that? Because in your case, that's true for creators, but in your case, there's a lot of money on the line. Yeah, there's videos cost a lot of life. Yeah, so much time. But no, I mean, you just, I mean, I don't know, the only real answer is just a conscious effort. You just have to unemotionally look at the video, determine the problems and then move on. There is no secret. It's just that. And if you really can't bring yourself to do it, then you're just screwed. You're honestly, maybe you're not meant for this game. Okay, so that's part of the development as a creator is like you're being able to be detached from someone. For longevity? Yeah. Yeah. You have to unemotionally be able to look at videos that flop and figure it out. Because if not just getting, you can't, and not every video can be a one out of 10. And so when a video does bad, you know, that, that just stress and depression, it's just going to eventually get to you in the long run. So you said you've failed in a bunch of videos, sort of taking them to completion. So what are some of the biggest fails? Yeah, we're the enough as we've matured and we've done this more. We don't have that problem as much, especially that we're getting to the multi-million dollar budgets per video. It's like failure is not really an option anymore. So I'm a little more particular about what I do. But back in the day, yeah, like we would do a video where we spent 24 hours on a dessert island. And we filmed it, did it all. And I just, I didn't like it after the edit. So I just grabbed the boys and we went back to the dessert island and spent another 24 hours there and re-filmed it. Or could that have been caught and prevented at the idea stage? No, it's a good idea. It was just poor execution. To be honest, when we were out there, it was hot. We were just like, we don't, at one point just kind of wanted to die. It was just miserable. So how do you avoid that these days? Well, I just went with it as a little cooler, to be honest. And then we had literally the amount of fun we had in the video was like 10 times higher. Oh, interesting. So you like, there's some practical DJs that you just learned. Yeah, I know what it takes to do. Videos that were it's very hot or it's on water because I get super seasick. It was like a kind of like 10 things that if they have these variables, I'm down to do it. But my fun meter is not as high as normal. We tried to spend any time, we do anything on a boat. When we spent 24 hours of beer minute of triangle, or when I tried to spend like, which didn't get upload, but I tried to spend like a hundred hours at sea or whatever, just like on a raft. It just like, it makes me want to throw up and I get so seasick, I came in sea straight. But there are just some videos that require me to be on a boat. So I just second up. So when you spend months in creating a video, I know this is probably stressful to some creators. Like how much stress, how do you feel when you have to click publish? Video. No, not much. You're able to detach yourself. Yeah. Again, and old me tons, I feel like scratching and nervous and like my hands will be sweating like to point where I'm almost about to puke. I'm like, I really hope people like this. But you know, I don't know, I think that's just part of maturing it. There's different, and as I can't occur, there's different phases. And you just like, once you get over the fear that you're just going to wake up one day and be irrelevant, you know, and you just, you know, accept that like you believe in yourself and you believe in your content and that you can continue to be irrelevant, then you don't, I don't know, you kind of, or it's a little bit easier to attach yourself, I guess. And that's, it's a much healthier place to be. You can't do this for 10 years. If every little thing just causes these huge emotional reactions, it's like, that's why a lot of creators go a little, you know, mentally insane. You know, you have to get out of that game, right? Because they really mess with you. We've talked about this a little bit, but how do you define and how do you suggest others define success? I need to subject them. Some people, some people successes, retiring them up. Later, you know, for you, successes, inspiring people and educating them and, you know, whatever the peak in their curiosity, you know, for other people, it's just quitting their job. So you have to self reflect on what your definition of successes, because I think a lot of creators kind of don't really think, don't introspect. Like they kind of want to keep getting more and more subscribers kind of thing. Yeah, but subscribers is just a vanity metric, you know, it doesn't, the servers don't correlate to views. Sure, or views what? Yeah, I know, but that's more, that was a direct view. That was more direct than people listening, because a lot of people do really care about subscribers or even followers like on TikTok. But if you look like your view on YouTube, very, very few percent, even a percent of your views come from the subfeed, right? They're almost all home feeders suggested. When's the last time you clicked on your subfeed to watch a video? Almost never. Yeah, maybe five years ago. It used to be a thing. It's not anymore. No one does. And it's getting harder and harder to find. I subscribe to way too many channels, I think. Yeah, that's what everyone does. And you subscribe to 10 channels. They're great, but two years later, your taste evolves. And it's like, it's a mess. And so, this is, subscribers don't really matter followers on TikTok don't really matter. So anyways, it really, they really are the definition of a vanity metric. And but what about use? They do. Obviously, because the people are shown up time and time again, that's what matters. Okay, so that that's a good thing to define a success. I just feel like that too can be a problem. Because I would say, if I wanted to be successful, like, as a young creator, I might start copying Mr. Beast or something like that, right? Like, you start trying to take shortcuts as opposed to find your own unique voice, right? So like chasing views is a problem too. It feels like, or no, it's as long as you detach yourself from that. I mean, if you're the sounds of it, if you're lazy, yeah, and you just want to copy someone else and not experiment and find your own way. Bye. Yeah, I mean, you can't make that excuse for them. And someone just isn't coming up with the original stuff and putting in the effort. You can't just say, oh, it's because they're chasing views. We need some metric, different metrics from the chase. No, they just need to find their own way. It just feels like unique type of content will often lead to sacrificing the number of views in the short term. Mm-hmm. But in the long term, you win. Okay. Or if you do win, you win more. I guess we'll be a better way of putting it. Do you think you will IPO Mr. Beastburger or Feastables in the next 5-10 years? Beastburger or Feastables? No, I kind of think there are some things. Actually, you know what? I just realized this is our first time talking about those. We're like an hour and a half and that's so funny. We started talking about what my retention brain kicked in. I wonder if you have retention brain for life itself. Every time I'm talking to someone, I'm like, okay. We're all loved ones. Spending time with loved ones thinking, we could be doing something much better right now. Yes, no, that is a serious problem. So we'll pause the Beastburger question. Yes, but that's why my current girlfriend, which I was telling you before when we were talking about this, is she has a genuine love for learning. And that's something I have. I always feel like I need to be learning something to justify the time I'm spending. And so that's why it's such a nice trait because I feel like that time is being used optimally because whether we're watching a documentary or we're going and taking IQ tests or reading about whatever, just why modern art is the thing. I don't know. One of the weird things we decided to do, I'm always learning and improving, so it justifies the time. So to maximize retention in your relationship, you want to spend time at that time learning as much as possible. Yeah, which conveniently, I don't have to force, right? Or I want to be recharging. So when I do work, I can hit the ground harder and luckily, we're into a lot of the same things, which, you know, happen to be learning sometimes, it's not learning. Like maybe watching an anime or something like that. But I'm a big believer in you're either, if you, well, if you're goals to be like a super successful entrepreneur, you need to either be working or you need to be doing something that decompresses and recharges you so you can work again. If your goal is to be like a really kick ass opportunity, and obviously we're blowing this down to like a very basic thing. And so the things you're doing your down time when you're not working, if it doesn't recharge you, you're screwed. You're just a ticking time bomb waiting to implode. And so you got to like heavily recharge. And like, so like watching for me an anime or whatever it is playing a board game, like that is actually kind of crucial to my success, which takes a lot of mechering to come to that conclusion because I used to be the kind of guy that wanted to work every hour of the day. And I would try to train myself to not need that stuff. And I, you know, and I almost resented like that. I have to do these kinds of things and it would piss me off, because it's not optimal. And, you know, I just really want to make content and entertain people. But as someone who's gone down that road and, you know, you just work every day for two, three months straight and, you know, every hour of the day. And then you just a bomb waiting to explode and lose your mind. And the only real sustainable thing is to just like give yourself time to recharge in between working. So there's a kind of balance you have to find. You have to. Even, and I hate it more than anyone else because I, you know, you hate not working. Yeah, it's because it's just not optimal for time. Like it's, it's, it's, as a human, I do need to occasionally watch a mindless show and play a board game. And it took me a very long time to, like, come to peace with that. And not I would have like borderline panic attacks when I do it, because I think that just one of my doing right now, why am I doing this? I should be, you know, like, what if one day I have to lay off an employee because we're not doing so well? Like, how could I justify watching this, this show or whatever I'm doing right now? You know, it's like, there's a lot of things like that that go on in your head, but it's necessary. Before you return to Mr. Beastburger. Well, what is like a, since we're on the topic, what is a perfect day in the life, perfectly productive day in the life of Mr. Beast look like? Oh boy. Well, I mean, or like a stand-up. I mean, the perfectly productive days we filmed on my main channel video. Because those get a hundred million of pop. I mean, it doesn't really get any better than that. What about like the average day when you're not on the set? Yeah. And you're like, because you're running a lot of things, right? Yeah. So right now we have our SnapRin, Feastables. We have a restaurant chain, Beastburger. And then we basically, we haven't even really launched any product yet, but we have the data company that I was showing you, where we're going to roll out some tools for creators. And then we have the React channel, the gaming channel, the main channel, and then we have my charity, which also has a channel. And so kind of how I've structured my life right now is whatever I have free time, we just kind of go, hey guys, Jimmy's got an hour from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. And everyone's just like, I need this, I need this. And this sounds like I need this thing filmed. Or, you know, whatever the guy who runs my TikTok, I'm saying I need this TikTok film. Or, you know, Beastburger's like, I need this menu item approved. We need to talk about this marketing thing. And then we kind of just look at what everyone needs. And we're like, that one looks like the most important. We'll do that. And then so it's just kind of like, you know, if I just did that for every company in a day, then that's optimal. I just kind of like an optimal day for me would be going down to eight companies and just whatever they're like two to three biggest pain points or things to need for me. And just doing those based on priority. And then trying to keep it as short as possible. Yeah. To just the things that you're needed on. It doesn't get more optimal than that. If I clear the bottlenecks or some bottlenecks for all my companies, then it's, yes, that's a perfect day. Yeah, I mean, even just me because you're like, you're showing me around and you're being a great and gracious host. But on top of that, you're just doing all these meetings. You basically, I felt bad at some points. I was like, oh, I just tricked them into going to meetings with me. You live my little meeting, buddy. Yeah. I mean, it was fun. It was fun to see. It was fun to see how effectively you've delegated. You basically trust the team to do a really good job on the various things. And there's just a strong team that's able to carry the flag on all the different tasks. Yeah. From the from the brainstorming and the main channel to the react and so on. Yeah, it's really interesting. I mean, it's really interesting what it takes to build a team like that. Because you very quickly build a very large team that's that's able to scale. I'm just very scared because that's my first, you know, I'm 24. You know, and I think it was telling you this earlier. It's funny because six years ago, I had to raise my hand to go use the bathroom. And now I'm in charge of hundreds of people and entertain hundreds of millions of people. And so it is crazy just how quick it comes up. And I wish I was a little bit older. So I could have ran a couple of companies and failed a few companies in the past and like learn from those and apply those here because I know for a fact when I'm 34, I'm 24 now when I'm 34, I'll know so much more about running a business and scaling and hiring and how to lead people and better effectively communicate all these different skillsets that will make me a better leader that that's the only thing that sucks is I just don't have those because I just haven't been through the lessons and I just have such a lucrative thing on my plate right now. And it just sucks that I have to learn the lessons with the lucrative thing, you know what I mean? Yeah, because you're you already have so much influence so much impact, but you have effectively scaled what lessons do you draw from that? How to effectively scale as a 24 year? Like yeah, you know, that's something I feel like I actually could get a lot of value to to young people who are doing it like older people who built five companies or whatever they do. I probably couldn't, you know, never really be like, oh, this is so obvious, but for younger first time business owners, you kind of just experiment to be honest and for us, like it's just a new space. No one had really ever skilled up a hundred person in team to build make content on YouTube. So there wasn't no, I spent all this time like I hired one person from Disney to at one point to come in and help and obviously that was a dumb idea looking back on it, but you know, I thought, oh, they make great stuff people want to watch and they come over here and help me build a team. And you know, they build it more the traditional way and not like how it should be online. And so then it's like, okay, and now I'm not trying to trash people like they'll try their best, but then I hired this one person who does this different type of media and runs a hundred person team and then you come in here and they try to build it that way and they don't really listen to your value or see the difference. And I tried basically for building this company with like four or five different people who worked in different veins of media and you know, every single time, they just don't get it and they like they don't understand my world. And the eventual solution was just like draw up my sleeves and do it myself, you know, with like James, very him and and just like no one's ever done this and like no one's going to just give us a golden carrot and tell us how to build this company. We got to figure it the fuck out ourselves. And you have to build up people from scratch then. Yeah, exactly. All the stuff I was talking about earlier and all the lessons I learned along the way. And so for me, that was a big part of like stop trying to have someone build this company for me and just do it myself because it's scary. I guess my whole life studying YouTube videos of our reality, not business building, but fucking I was like, I guess we just got to do it ourselves. And that's where things really started to click and we got the exponential growth. We started getting the right people and training them the right way and you know, just throwing conventional stuff out the door and focusing on what's actually practical for YouTube, which is just completely different than traditional media. So you train people and then those people train people and so on. Yeah, I mean, it's just even like, you know, how you do the lighting on sets or like how you do the audio or or you know, not writing scripts. So, you know, we're just not as efficient with our filming. Like sometimes I have to have 30 cameras running. Why? Because it's not scripted. I don't know what Chris is going to do when we start filming. He might run over there. But guess what? We got to have a plan because there's only one shot. I can't tell them not to do that. Yeah, that's the shooting, but then there's also the editing. Yeah, and then the editing as well, and not having guard rails and kind of, you know, at the end of the day, it's whatever I want. The video, their job is to make a video that they think I'll like because it's my channel. But, you know, you can achieve that kind of however. And so it's just everything's just different. You know, it's much more like a startup as opposed to, are you often surprised like with the result? Like, you think a certain, like we watched a video today. Those really nice. Those different than you would have potentially edited it. Yeah. Are you sometimes surprised by like a decision editor makes? It's like, okay, that's not the way I would have done it. But it's actually this is a cool idea. Yeah, of course. Yeah. The thing, my biggest fear is I don't ever want to get trapped in, like a bubble of, you know, because we are getting 100 million views of video on the main channel. Like, I don't want to get in this feedback loop of just, my ideas are great or, or I can not feedback loop, but stop learning and improving because it is easy sometimes to be like, what we're doing is working. We need to just keep doing it. I want to keep learning and trying new things. And I guess one way I put it is like, you don't, when you're on a, a come up or you're growing, you don't want to test new things once you start to plateau or have a downtrend. Because if you're like, you know, you're skyrocketing, right? You're up, up, up. And then you level off, you start to go down and you're like, oh, this isn't working. Let's start experimenting. Well, if you have a bad experiment, now you're in like a tailspin and you're nose diving and you have one more bad experiment, you're like screwed. Kind of, I'm oversimplifying. You want to test things while you're still growing to keep the growing from happening. Because once you like have, you know, again, very oversimplifying that like, you know, kind of level off, you do a couple tests that go wrong. And my, you're like screwed. You know, I mean, you're already out the door. Now you're just confirming that you're out the door and online entertainment. So that's kind of how I see it. So I think it's very imperative that you're constantly always experimenting and trying things, even if you're getting crazy unheard of growth. And so that outside of the thing that brought you to the dance, you just dived right into Mr. Beastburger and festivals. This is a whole nother industry. Like, what was that? Like, what's up, Beastburger? We kind of, it's supposed to be like just a pop up. Like, we just partnered with someone who had 300 restaurants and we're just like, you know, let's just sell Beastburgers for a day or two. Let's see what happens. We didn't really think it would be as big as it was. But those first like that first day, you know, we do six speakers and sales. And they all sell out and they're running to local walmarts. They can't keep up with the demand. And it's like, okay, well, maybe let's just leave it open a week, whatever. And we're just doing crazy revenue. And it's like, okay, well, let's add some more restaurants and let's just leave them open for a month. And we're just still doing six figures a day. And it kind of just went from this thing that was, I don't know, it wasn't really, I didn't really plan on running a restaurant, Jane. But here I am. But didn't that in some sense also open your mind to something like Beastbles? Beastbles something I've always wanted to do because I think just in general, American snacks are just full of so much horrible ingredients to be honest. And they're not, I don't know. I feel like they're also just hasn't been any innovation in American snacks in quite a while. And so that's just something I've always been pretty passionate about. The thing, we built that from scratch. So we hired the CEO and built the team around them. And we spent probably over two and a half years before we even launched. Just like building the right team, figuring things out and making sure it was actually ran the way I wanted. Which Beastbles has just been crushing. It's very interesting. This is something I've never talked about publicly. But having products in retail, it's like before Beastbles, everything I had done was online. So if you wanted to, anything from the quote, quote, piece brand, you'd have to buy it online and ship it to you. But Beastbles now that, you know, because our first product, Chocobars, we started putting that in in retail locations. So like, for example, Walmart, it's crazy. Like it's just, it doesn't make sense. How if you're, which I guess it does for, because we get a hundred million views of videos. So a lot of people know us, if I go stand in Walmart, those people recognize me and ask for photos. Like, if I stood there all night off, I could take 150 photos today in Walmart or 200, whatever it is. So obviously it makes sense. Those people go five Beastbles. But then you just multiply that by every Walmart in American. It just gets so crazy. And I didn't think we'd be doing the kind of revenue we are. And we're about to launch in some other, I don't know if I'm allowed to say it. So whatever. But other big retail locations and convenience stores and like by the end and next year, we could be in like 40, 50,000 locations. And the numbers just don't make sense. So you know, what are some interesting challenges about scaling there that surprised you? The biggest problem, which I didn't think would be was just keeping the shelves and Walmart stock to be honest. Like it was that supply. It was like it was brutal. Well, even then sometimes like, you know, you get them the stuff and there like takes them like a day or two to put it out in that specific location. And I had to stop promoting it because every time I'd mention it, like 40% of people would just be like, it's not there. It's not in Walmart or I can't buy it. And so there's like a 3V-ish month period where I just didn't promote Beastbles because I was scared that someone would go buy it. And it's not there. And so like it took us a very long time to catch up to the demand and also, you know, it's not like we have unlimited money. So I, but now we're relatively caught up in keeping up. But it's going to be interesting because now this year in 2023, we're going to basically, you know, 10X, the amount of locations are in. So we're and we're going to try to launch new products. So we're in for an interesting ride. But yeah, I just hate. I hate when I tell people, you know, okay, go try this product. And then they go in their local Walmart and eventually other places that it's not there. It's just so brutal, you know, they made that whole journey out there and they can get it. And so that's really it. Besides that, that's it's been doing way better than I ever thought. You've talked a couple of places about maybe doing mobile games or computer games in the future. Is that something you're still considering? Yes, because, you know, do you normally talk with people as much as we talked before? Is that? No, no, that that was the front. We spent all day today. I just look at my head. Everything you asked me is something we already talked about. Not really. Well, no, no, not everything. I take it back. But sorry, the last two questions, yes. And so it's just funny because what? No, I tried. So there's a different style asking those questions because I, I am purpose didn't dig further. I could tell. Yeah. So I could tell you, okay, this is by the way, okay, all right. Well, this is the first time I've ever talked to somebody as much as I did with you beforehand. Yeah. On the same day. Not even six days together. We're talking only three hour one hour. Yeah. Yeah. Literally, it's funny. This is a hilarious and awesome social experiment. I picked them up from a hotel and I just like harassed them all day to hang out with me. And then here we are. Now I love it. I was secretly recording the whole time. Just seeing I'm just kidding. Anyway, so what was the question? The more blocking. Yeah. So the interesting thing is with Beast Burger and Feastables that there's physical goods as opposed to like making mobile games or PC game, whichever one we end up doing, which is software. And I actually have a giant international audience. Like most of my audience is obviously outside of America. And so the problem we're running into is it just takes time to build up the supply chain and get festivals in Southeast Asia, get festivals in India, get festivals in Brazil and Mexico and all these other places where we have giant pockets of our audience. And same thing with Beast Burger. It's just it's going to take probably years unless we partner with someone who already has a distribution, which we're figuring out. But the beauty of software is I can make a hypothetical game or whatever we end up doing. And all my fans can, you know, use it tomorrow. The day I mention it. And so if I promote something in a video to a hundred million people and it's like a, you know, basically like a game, they can all download it. So they're, you know, but if I promote a festival's bar, right now it's only in America because we're struggling just to keep up with American demand. We haven't even gotten the chance to go outside of America. So I alienate a majority of my audience and it feels sort of shitty to just from, you know, mention something that most of them can't buy. But on the flip side, you can't just spawn this crazy infrastructure and just have tens of millions of bars and all your products in every single store across the world before you promote it. So you can't put the egg before the chicken. And so it's like that's that's what I'm excited about. I want to get into less physical stuff and more stuff that everyone out is can actually use this is the thought process. Especially if there's a social element of the gaming too, because it's not unlike festivals, like that's a product you consume. You missed it. When you're sending it for this, we were doing some, basically just laying out everything that we're planning for. So our interfaces were we're want to start hiring the team to build it and we're kind of just laying out the game and I was actually really curious to get your thoughts, but I can't say it because whatever I say, someone's just going to take it and run with it. But you're a good idea. Oh, about the kind of games you're thinking about. Yeah, I mean, I can imagine we also talked a little bit about it. It's super awesome. Good one. I did so much good talks. All right. The juicy talks have a new year. She's like, I gotta go set up. Well, you know, I already heard a lot of awesome stuff. I mean, but that is a different kind of team you need to hire. Yeah. Is that a little, uh, never-racking, like going into a new field and trying to a little bit, but then I remind myself like like Steve Jobs didn't know how to code, right? And you know, he just, he just knew what a good product was. And I feel like as someone who wasted so much of his life playing video games, I have a good sense of it. And that might be ignorance. Well, that's really important, right? It's not about coding is about what makes for a good game. Exactly. And again, that might genuinely be ignorance. And maybe I end up, you know, getting been the butt because of what I'm saying now, but I think just like with YouTube, I just want to obsess over making a great product and things that I think my audience will love. And I think as long as I keep that as my North Star, I'll do well. What does the path to being worth a hundred billion look like? There's a path to being worth a hundred billion look like. I don't know. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let me just pause your 24 and there's so much awesome scaling, so many great ideas. Do you think about different trajectories? Yeah. What those possible trajectories might look like? Yeah. I mean, if the goal was to just be worth a hundred billion dollars, yes. I mean, I'm my goal. I'm a broken record. It's to make the best video possible because I know whatever else I want will come obviously. So the videos, the foundation. Yeah. Exactly. So to path to a hundred billion dollars is keeping you in a hundred million views of video, you know, I mean, but or more. Or yeah, or more. Exactly. If we can keep growing. But you know, if we can keep feasible growing, right? And we eventually spend international and one day we're in a hundred thousand retail locations and we're selling the same amount of skews per unit per skews like we're currently doing. I mean, that would crush. And then obviously ideally one day we open up hundreds of beast burgers, we get it where we turn out, you know, like super sell a couple hit games. I don't want to make dozens or hundreds of games. I just want to make games that are just great. And you know, we rarely drop them what we do. They're bangers. And just, you know, whatever other stuff we end up doing, all that combined. I mean, it's just interesting because like what's a show that's pulled a hundred million views per episode basically like we're doing. Like, you know, I mean, like the Super Bowl gets praised because they get a hundred million viewers. But I can't think of a show. Maybe in reruns or something. It's also a show that has has a singular kind of figure. Yeah, you can now use this like I don't have a network tell me what to do. I don't have anyone like and do whatever one. So it's a very interesting position because I put out content and a hundred million people show up and then I also have a gaming channel and I put out content and 15 million people show up and every action on put out content and 10 million people show up and have a TikTok and I put out content and on average 20 million people show up and like and I so as long as I can keep that going and then we build these businesses, it's like it's honestly pretty scary to see what will happen, you know, over the years because festivals launched, you know, last year, 2022. So it's a relatively new thing and Beastware we just started scaling up the physical side and we haven't obviously even launched any mobile games yet. So think about the antifuses of it. I don't see a world where my YouTube channels are relevant in the next couple of years. I just this is what I live for and so if I can keep that going and then really start to expand these businesses that leverage off of it then yeah, hopefully there's the day one where I can give away a billion dollars in a video, honestly. Yeah, that would be one hell of a video. Let me ask you the ridiculous question since you went from being broke to being rich, although you keep spending all your money. Does money buy happiness? How has money changed sort of your content and your happiness in life? It's money by happiness. No, not, I mean to a point, yes, once you can take care of your health, you can take care of like any immediate dangers and you can take care of your family relatively, no, it doesn't. Like, but those things do. Like when I first came into money, one of the first things I did was retirement mom and like that probably tons of happiness, you know what I mean? And like, you know, if my brother had a medical emergency and we couldn't afford it and I made money to afford it, that brings tons of happiness. You know, so once you take care of those basic necessities, so we'll say makeover, high-pethically a million dollars, no, it really doesn't. Like adding an extra zero, going from 10 million to 100 million or whatever it is, makes no difference. So you're given that or just fearless and spending the money? Yeah, well, let me reframe. I guess it could for some people if you really, I don't know, you spent your whole life obsessing over cars, it probably would bring you a little bit of joy to buy a nice Lamborghini. I'm coming more from the frame of mind of an entrepreneur, someone who's really obsessed with business building. For me and a lot of my friends and people I hang around, what brings us happiness is winning and building companies and changing the world. Like that is fun. It's a complex problem you can wake up every day and it gives you something to obsess over and devote your life to, where it's just having money doesn't, you know? Well, one interesting question I have for you psychologically, so because you have become wealthy and because you give like part of your work is giving away a lot of money. Do you find it hard to find people you can trust? The question, do people see you basically as a source of money as opposed to another human being? It's weird because you would think yes, but I feel like I also know the right places to look. But yeah, if I just walked into Target and tried to make friends with 10 random people, of course, you got to, so you can kind of sense, oh yeah, you can sense the right thing and so quickly. Right, though, yeah, yeah, it's so obvious. I don't even want to go into descriptions, but well, honestly, a lot of my friends are like Chandler. I played Little League with him and Tyler, the guy, I mean, I went to school with him. Chris, he was my first subscriber. Carl was here after we got big, but whatever. He's friends with the boys and it is a lot of my closer friends, even like my YouTube friends, I knew before I was big. So maybe there is some merit to that. Maybe it is, I don't know, I've never really put too much thought into it. Maybe there's a reason I hang around a lot of these people I knew before I got there because it's much easier. And they help you keep like a your radar sharp of who can't and can't be trusted because you know, you can trust them. It's difficult when you become richer and richer and more powerful. Well, one thing you'll also find when you get rich, and I'm even richer but more faint. One thing I thought is, as I climbed this like ladder of YouTube and got bigger, I thought there would be tons of people like me. People like that take like the Kamikaze approach to building a business. You just throw all your money in it. You throw all your time. You throw all your energy. You throw everything. You're just like, fuck it. This is this arm dead. I thought there would be hundreds of me. And there isn't. There isn't. I mean, there's like maybe one or two and I talk to those motherfuckers every single day. I stick and tired of talking to them. But I love them. But it's just so interesting because like every level I got out like I get a million subscribers. I'd be like, all right. Where's all these guys and the million subscribers that are fucking psychopaths? And then you know, you know, they're like. People become like conservative as they get. They get more. Especially as they get bigger. Yeah. And you know, 20 million subscribers. 30. It's like every step of the way. It's like I just got more and more lonely to be honest. So if you, you know, it sounds cliche and you hear that kind of shit in movies and you're like, yeah, that's not how it works. But it is like there's, there's just not many people that just want to give up everything. Go all in and obsess over making the greatest goddamn videos every single day of their life. Like they're really hard to find and be able to sacrifice everything for that video. Yeah. Basically you put all the money right back in. Yeah. Or the people doing it. They're on just a small scale. And if I talk to them, it's just 99.9% of the time I'm teaching them things. And it's like. So it's lonely because there's not too many people, especially in the greatest space that is crazy is you. Yeah, it is 100%. It's so it's not what I was expecting. I was expecting there would be a lot of people like me. But well, I guess the guy we talked to you a lot more, because a bit like you in that sense, yeah, just in a different domain. Yeah. Exactly. Just willingness to put it all back in. And that's why I found right now a lot of the people are related to don't even make YouTube videos like I'm viewing more and more away from fellow content creators and more to just, you know, I'm just looking for those other people who just share a little bit of it. So I don't feel so fucking crazy all the time. Like, you know what I mean? And like people I feel normal around that they tend to just be doing the randomest things. But, you know, loving it. Well, I think that's really inspiring. It's, uh, it's like the Bukowski line. Find where you love and let it kill you is really put everything put everything into the thing you love that that's like the way to really create special stuff. But it's also the way to live out the life. You have to be careful given this advice because they're like, they're like bodybuilders. So it'll be like, just go to the gym. Be dismal. I'm displeant. Go to gym. But I would argue for those people, it's like, it's not even dismal. They just enjoy weightlifting, right? Because there are people who are jacked, but they don't make much money or run a business, right? If they're that discipline, they would, they would be hitting every area of their life. They just really like business. And then there's people like me who just to an extreme level love building companies, right? It's not even disciplined for me. It's just in my blood. It's what I wake up. I don't think about it. I don't push myself. I don't need to watch a fucking motivational video to go work. I just do it. It's programmed in me at this point. And I couldn't imagine a world where I don't wake up and do it every day. But I think that a little bit of it is genetics and just how you're hardwired. Not that it can't be trained or taught. And not that, you know, and obviously the friend group you're in influences these things and over time, I think can change it. But someone's just not going to be able to flip a switch and then just start doing a kamikaze approach to building a business. Just like a lot of people try to flip a switch and start bodybuilding and quit majority of the time. You know, it's just not innate to them. But I think a lot of us have the capacity to do that in some domain. Yeah, I think if you went about it strategically, if you surrounded yourself with fellow like-minded people and, you know, slowly over time switched it. But if you just try to like hardcore do it, you're just going to lose your mind. Do you ever worry about your mental health? Did you take step to protect it? To, uh, yeah, to like for the long run to make sure you have the mental strength to go on? Yes, weirdly enough, the best thing for my mental health was giving into my innate nature to work. Any- the most depressed I get is when I try to restrict it and like, I don't work weekends. So I don't work this day. What's best for me is just to work when I feel like working and then just not work when I don't. Like, and just have no constraints because there are just some nights where I don't want to sleep and whatever reason I feel compelled to go all night, whatever. Like just do it, you know, do whatever you want. It's what I tell my like working brain. Um, and I just give it into it and I feel that's where I feel the happiest and, and then, uh, you know, it's typically like, but when I'm really in the grind mode, it'll be like seven or eight days, it's just non-stop going going. And it's like, I'll realize like, oh, I need some recharge time and then go fucking binge it a season of anime. Yeah, but- Listen to your brother. But that's the thing like people will tell you don't work weekends or don't do this or don't work past this or blah, blah, I'll give you all these constraints, but for me, and it's unconventional, I just give into it. I think there's something really to be said for that. I try to surround myself with people that like when I don't, when I pull an all-nighter, they don't go like you should get more sleep. There's a reason I pull that all nighter. Like if I'm really passionate about something, they say they basically encourage it because I- I have no problem getting sleep and getting rest. Um, what I need in my life is people that encourage you to kind of keep going, keep going with the stuff you're passionate about. Normal people, they don't want that life and they probably shouldn't. It's not good for you. But yeah, if you hang around people, just whatever different people, you're gonna feel crazy and it's gonna wear on you. Whereas if you're around similar people, it's just so much easier. Like if you, you know, I've started weightlifting more and like one thing that's helped is just having jack people around. They naturally just eat healthier. They do. Like they naturally just have freaking grilled chicken and all this shit and high protein meals. And it's just like easier for me to just piggyback and be like, oh, can you just order me whatever you're getting? And they're like, I gotta go to the gym and I'll be like, oh shit, I'll just join you. You know, and it's like, it's just, it's cheat codes. You know, just surround yourself with people that you want to be. And it makes it like 70% easier, in my opinion. It's like that is the cheat code to life. Um, and I wish, I obviously your audience is definitely a lot older, but you know, two, the older people listening, like if you have, are in a place of mentorship for someone younger or have influence over younger people, you should really try to drill that in their heads. Like the people, they are around 100% dictate state outcome. I would, I would not be on 120 million subscribers. If I didn't find, uh, when I was around a million, I had a couple of friends that were just also psychopaths. You know, I outgrew them, but at the time it was great. And I wouldn't be where I am today if it wasn't for them. Um, and it's just all along the way. The friends that I hung out with had such a dramatic impact on where I am. Like I, I'd probably have 80 million less subscribers. You know, if it was, if I wasn't so strategic about hanging out with people that I had value to and they also had value to me. So the advice for young people would be to be very selective about the people you're also. So selective. It's, it's crazy. Like Chris, you know, he's, uh, he's really funny. And that's why he's great for the videos. And part of why he's so funny is he consumes copious amounts of cartoons and just funny content. And so I'll find like when I spend more time with Chris, I'll start just quoting these weird cartoons and shows and like my speech will literally change. And just after like a week of spending more time with him, it has like, it's like that quick out of effect. You know, now picture that over the course of years. I mean, yeah, it has such a huge influence. Like pluck one of their friends out and hypothetically put me in there and, you know, there's no doubt if they're trying to become a content creator, there are odds of success just 10x, right? Obviously you can't do that, but you got to find your closest version of it. And it should be selective. Yeah. But this also applies not just to younger told people to agree. But they, yeah, it's, it's even more I like when I was a teenager, I just, you know, I couldn't relate to many people. I just thought I was like, I'm fucking freaking nature because no one was obsessed with building businesses or any of this kind of stuff. And so like back then, you know, that advice would have been helpful, maybe not that particularly, but just knowing that there are, you know, it's not that you're a freaking nature. You just haven't found people that have the same interest. So the task is not to feel sorry for yourself or somehow change yourself. It's more to find the fine people you fit in with. Yeah. Yeah. Assuming which, you know, you're not getting comfortable. Like, as soon as not something bad, right? Like if you're hobbyist shooting things, you know, or shooting things you shouldn't be shooting, you know, don't find people that encourage that. But outside of that, for sure, actually, as an answer to what is the best advice someone ever gave you, you said, you're crazy until you're successful than you're a genius. 100% all along the way. People gave me so much, you know, advice on why I shouldn't be doing it. Why I'm crazy. Every step of the way people wanted to tell me why I shouldn't be doing this and should get a live should stop me to obsessed everything, everything under the book. And then once I'm successful, those same people are like, dang, you're, you're genius. Wow, you really, you pulled that off. Those are probably the same people that will give you advice now. You're the most successful video creator of all time. Stick to that anytime you want to do something new, right? They'll, they'll like pressure you not to do, you know, festivals or mobile gaming or whatever they's beyond. Yeah. It's funny how people don't. Well, honestly, the type of people I just don't talk to anymore. Yeah, sure. I wouldn't even know what they have to say now. So most people in the team are like, yes, and they're like, whatever the idea you got, they, they're with it. No, it's weird. We actually have a, my team pushes back on me pretty hardcore, which I want. I don't want Yes, man. And they're, they're like, they're James, you know, let's see who helped me build all this. He's very adamant. Like, we're not Yes, man. And, and he trains people to really think for themselves. And even when I give them orders, like, really think like, is this optimal? Is there context or information should we could be missing that I can provide that couldn't help them make a more updated decision? Like, I'm not God. You know what I mean? Like, I'm human and I make errors. And so don't take what I say as the Bible. So even like in the brainstorming and so on, they can push back. Yeah, you can see it like Tyler anytime I set something, you'd give me feedback and push back, which is what I want. I don't want him just to be like, yes, you're fucking genius. Good job, Jimmy. You know, I don't need that, you know, I need negatives. You talked about being in a relationship. What role, Jimmy, does love play in the human condition? I think, well, role is, look, big things that love can be scary, because this is, you know, the human you're gonna spend the most amount of time with in your life, you know, and so for a project that over 50 years, they can be a liability or an asset. Love them, that is right. You know, I love them. No, but seriously, it's got to be someone that makes you better. For me, I can't truly love someone that doesn't make me better because in the long run, across the years. Because if not, then it's like, it's a negative, you know, to everything I've spent my life building. But luckily, I'm very happy with the part I haven't, like we were talking about before. I do think she makes me better. There's a lot of actually positives I've noticed. Even things as simple as like, you know, I struggle to turn off my brain at night because I'm just thinking about all the businesses and how we could do better, or whatever weird thing I have on my mind. But, you know, just chatting with her and hanging out with her helps me, like basically just shut my brain off and like, mellow out. And even like, there's just a ton of little things like that that I've noticed are positives, especially when you really look for them, that are easy to gloss over if you're not. And so for me, yeah, I have someone who I think is very beautiful, very intelligent, makes me better. It's constantly pushing me, okay, with me working hard, makes me smarter. And just all these different things that I think, for me, love just makes me a better person, you know what I mean? Which makes me love her even more. Does that make sense? Absolutely. What advice would you give on finding somebody like that? Um, just really don't give up until you find someone that, you know, there's so many people on the planet. I mean, there really is. There's billions of the odds are in your favor of, yeah, like just don't settle and find someone that, you know, makes you happy. Yeah, just like you said, surround yourself with people that make your better person in the same case. So surround yourself with that one special person that really makes you a better person. And maybe that's just an entrepreneur brain looking at it. Not everyone wants to hyper optimize your life like me, but for me, to like truly love someone, they have to make me a better person. In every way, yeah. Yeah. Well, what do you hope you're 24? We start talking about death. Let's, let's, let's finish talking about death. What do you hope your legacy is when you, when we look a hundred years from now, and the alien, the AI has completely taken over. And the aliens visit and discuss with the AI what this last of special humans that existed on Earth was like, what do you hope they say about you? It's a deep one. Probably just that because it's, it's hard, right? Like I said before, Elon is over double my age. I could live every second I've lived up to this point of my life. And still not even be Elon's age. So I have so much time. I just hope whatever it is that it's a net positive on the world. And it impacts billions of people in a positive way that makes lasting change. So you admire people like Steve Jobs and Elon Musk for having sort of reached for that goal as well. Yeah, of course, to help to help millions. I mean, the iPhone's the most successful product ever invented. It's hard not to admire what he created. The same with sort of as Johnny, I've talked about like the passion, the effort they put into the designing the iPhone that like little bit of love is transfer to the whole world. I think it's the joy of that from the designer. It's what a beautiful thing to do. You know, I couldn't think of anything better, you know, to create something that even after your dead for decades just has such a profound impact on basically half the human population. Yeah, it's wild brings joy to people. Yeah. Well, I hope you do just that, man. You've already done it for millions and millions and millions and millions of people. And I hope you keep doing it. I'm I can't like it's so exciting to see what happens this year and next year. I know, like the size of the limit. Yeah, I can't I mean, the videos, but all the other businesses you're in and you as a human being as you grow, I can tell I know as everyone knows you have a kind heart and the fact that you're really damn good at actually using that kind of hard to help a lot of people. It's awesome to see man. I appreciate it. More importantly before we go, are we going to play Dune tonight? Some board games? I have to you don't want to play board games with me. I want to play board games. If you don't play board games, if only I wasn't an idiot and actually flew to the right airport. If you don't play board games with me, they're going to dislike the video. Thanks for listening to this conversation with Mr. Beast to support this podcast. Please check out our sponsors in the description. And now let me leave you with some words from the poet and philosopher, Rubin Draenath Tagore. Reach high for stars lie hidden in you. Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.
