Dennis Whyte: Nuclear Fusion and the Future of Energy | Lex Fridman Podcast
 Why weren't we pushing towards economic fusion and new materials and new methods of heat extraction and so far because everybody knew fusion was 40 years away. And now it's four years away. The following is a conversation with Dennis White, nuclear physicist at MIT and the director of the MIT Plasma Science and Fusion Center. This is the Lex Friedman podcast to support it. Please check out our sponsors in the description. And now dear friends, here's Dennis White. Let's start with a big question. What is nuclear fusion? It's the underlying process. The powers the universe. So is the name implies it fuses together or brings together two different elements, technically nuclei that come together. And if you can push them together close enough that you can trigger essentially a reaction. What happens is that the element typically changes. So this means that you change from one element to another chemical element to another. Underline what this means is that you change the nuclear structure. This rearrangement through equals MC squared releases large amounts of energy. So fusion is the fusing together of lighter elements and to heavier elements. And when you go through it, you say, oh look, so here were the initial elements typically hydrogen. And they had a particular mass, rest mass, which means just the mass with no kinetic energy. And when you look at the product afterwards, it has less rest mass. And so you go, well, how is that possible because you have to keep mass, but mass and energy are the same thing, which is what equals MC squared means. And the conversion of this comes into kinetic energy, namely energy that you can use in some way. And that's what happens in the center of stars. So fusion is literally the reason life is is viable in the universe. So fusion is happening in our sun. And what are the elements? The elements are hydrogen that are coming together. It goes through a process, which is probably gets a little bit too detailed, but there's a somewhat complex catalyzed process that happens in the center of stars. But in the end stars are big balls of hydrogen, which is the lightest, it's the simplest element, the lightest element, the most abundant element, most of the universe is hydrogen. And it's essentially a sequence through which these processes occur that you end up with helium. So those are the primary things. And the reason for this is because helium has features as a nucleus, like the interior part of the atom, that is extremely stable. And the reason for this is helium has two protons and two neutrons. These are the things that make up nuclei that make up all of us, along with electrons. And because it has two pairs, it's extremely stable. And for this reason, when you convert the hydrogen into helium, it just wants to stay helium and it wants to release kinetic energy. So stars are basically conversion engines of hydrogen into helium. And this also tells you why you love fusion. I mean, because our son will last 10 billion years approximately. That's along the fuel will last. But to do that kind of conversion, you have to have extremely high temperatures. It is one of the criteria for doing this. But it's the easiest one to understand. Why is this? It's because effectively what this requires is that these hydrogen ions, or which is really the bare nucleus. So they have a positive charge. Everything has a positive charge of those ones is that to get them to trigger this reaction, they must approach within distances, which are like the size of the nucleus itself, because the nature. In fact, what it's really using is something called the strong nuclear force. There's four fundamental forces in the universe. This is the strongest one. But it has a strange property is that it. While it's the strongest force by far, it only has impact over distances, which are the size of a nucleus. So to get put that into what does that mean? It's a millionth of a billionth of a meter. Incredibly small distances, but because the distances are small and the particles have charge, they want to push strongly apart. Namely, they have repulsion that wants to push them apart. So it turns when you go through the math of this, the average velocity or energy of the particles must be very high to have any significant probability of the reactions happening. And so the center of our Sun is at about 20 million degrees Celsius. And on Earth, this means it's one of the first things we teach, you know, entering graduate students. You can do a quick, you can do a quick, basically power balance. And you can, you can determine that on Earth that it requires a minimum temperature of about 50 million degrees Celsius on Earth to perform fusion. To get enough fusion that you would be able to make get energy gain out of it. So you can trigger fusion reactions at lower energy, they become almost vanishingly small at lower temperatures than that. First of all, let me just linger on some crazy ideas. One, the strong force, just stepping out and looking at all the physics, is it weird to you that there's these forces and they're very particular, like it operates at a very small distance, then gravity operates at a very large distance. And they're all very specific in the standard model describes three of those forces extremely well. And there's. And this was one of them. Yeah, this is one of them. It's just all kind of works out. There's a big part of you that's, you know, an engineer that used to step back and almost look at the philosophy of physics. So it's interesting because as a scientist, I see the universe through that lens of essentially the interesting things that we do are through the forces that get used around those. And everything works because of that. Richard Feynman had, I remember he had Richard Feynman, he's a little bit of a tangent, but. He's never been on the podcast. He's never been on the podcast. He was unfortunately passed away, but one of like a hero to almost all physicists. And in part of it was because of what you said, he kind of looked through a different lens at these, but typically look like very dry, like equations and relationships. And he kind of, I think he brought out the wonder of it in some sense, right? For those. He posited what would be, if you could write down a single, not even really a sentence, but a single concept that was the most important thing scientifically that we knew about that in others, you had only one thing that you could transmit like a future or past generation. It was very interesting. It was so it's not what you think. It wasn't like a strong nuclear force or fusion or something like this. And it's very profound, which was he was that the reason that matter operates the way that it does is because all matter is made up of individual particles that interact each other through forces. That was it. So just that atomic theory basically. Yeah. Which is like, wow, that's like so simple, but it's not so simple. It's because like who thinks about atoms that they're made out of? Like I, there's a good, there's a good question I give to my students. How many atoms are in your body? Like almost no students can answer this, but to me, that's like a fundamental thing. Yeah. By the way, it's about 10 to the 28. 28. So that's, you know, trillion and I know million trillion trillion or something like that. Yes. The one thing is to think about the number and the others to start to really ponder the fact that it all holds together yet all holds together and you're actually that you're more that than you are anything else. Yes, exactly. Yeah. No, I mean, there are people who do study such things of the fact that if you look at the, for example, the ratios between those fundamental forces, people have figured out, oh, if this ratio was different by some factor, like a factor of two or something. Oh, it's like, oh, this would all like not work. And I look, you look at the sun, right? It's like, so it turns out that there are key reactions that if they had slightly lower probability, no star would ever ignite. And then life wouldn't be possible. It does seem like the universe set things up for us that is possible to do some cool things, but it's challenging. So that that keeps it fun for us. Yeah. Yeah. That's the way I look at it. I mean, the, you know, the multiverse model is an interesting one because there are, you know, quantum scientists who look at it and figure, I was like, oh, it's like, oh, yeah. The quantum science perhaps tells us that there are almost an infinite, you know, variety of other universes, but the way that it works probably is, it's almost like a form of natural selection. It's like, well, the universe is that didn't have the correct or interesting relationships between these forces. Nothing happens in them. So almost by definition, the fact that we're having this conversation means that we're in one of the interesting ones by default. Yeah, one of the somewhat interesting, but there's probably super interesting ones where we, I, I tend to think of humans as incredible creatures. Our brain is an incredible computing device, but I think we're also extremely cognitively limited. I can imagine alien civilizations that are much, much, much, much more intelligent in ways of getting a comprehend in terms of their ability to come to construct models of the world to do physics, to do physics of mathematics. I would see it in a slightly different way. It's actually it's because we have, we have creatures that live with us on the earth that have cognition, right, that understand and move through their environment. But they, they actually see things in a way, are they sense things in a way which is so fundamentally different. It's really hard. Like the, it's the problem is the translation, not necessarily intelligence. So it's the perception of the world. So I have a dog and when I go and I see my dog like smelling things, there's a realization that I have that he sees or senses the world in a way that I can never, like I can't understand it because I can't translate my way to this. We get little glimpses of this as humans, though, by the way, because there are some parts of it, for example, optical information, which comes from light, isn't now because we've developed the technology. We can actually see things, you know, I've had, I get this, you know, as a, what are my areas of research is spectroscopy. So this means the study of light. And I, and I get this quote unquote, see things or representations of them from, you know, the far infrared all the way to like hard, hard x-rays, which is several orders of magnitude of the light intensity. But our own human eyes, like see a teeny, teeny little sliver of this. Yeah. So that even like bees, for example, see a different place than we do. So I don't, I think if you think of there's already other intelligences like around us in a way, in a limited way, because of the way they can communicate. But it's like those are already baffling. I mean, it is. If we just focus in on the senses, there's already a lot of diversity, but there's probably things we're not even considering as possibilities. For example, whatever the heck consciousness is, could actually be a door into understanding some physical phenomena. We're not having even begun understanding. So just like you said spectroscopy, it could be a similar kind of spectrum for consciousness that we're just like, we're like these dumb. The sentence of apes like walking around, it sure feels like something to experience the color red. But like we don't have it's the same as in the ancient times you experience physics. We experience light. It's like, oh, it's bright and you know, yeah, and you could struck kind of semi-presidential. We might actually experience this faster than we thought, because we might be building another, another kind of intelligence. Yeah. And that that intelligence will explain to us. I'll silly we are. There was an email thread going around the professors in my department already of so what is it going to look like to figure out of students have actually written their term papers or its chat. The chat GPT chat GPT. It was so as usual as it is a we tend to be empiricist in my field. So of course they were in there like trying to figure out if it could answer like questions for a qualifying exam to get into the PhD program. I didn't do that well at that point. But of course this is just the beginning of it. So we have some interesting ones to go. Eventually both the students and the professors will be replaced by chat GPT. And we'll sit on the beach. I really recommend you know this. I don't know if you've ever seen them. It's called the day the universe changed. This is a Movin James Burke. He's a science historian based in the UK. He had a fairly famous series on public television called Connections. But the one that I really enjoyed was the day the universe changed. And the reason for the title of it was that this is the universe is what we know and perceive of it. So when there's a fundamental insight as to something new, the universe for us changes. Of course the universe from an objective point of view is the same as it was before. But for us it has changed. So he walks through these these moments of perception in the history of humanity that like changed what we were right. And so as I was thinking about coming to discuss this, people see fusion. Oh, it's still far away or we've been. It's been slow progress. It's like when my when my godmother was born, like people had no idea how stars worked. So you talk about like that day that insight, the universe changed. It's like, oh, this is the, I mean, they still didn't understand all the parts of it. But you know, they basically got it. It's like, oh, because of the because of the understanding of these processes. It's like we unveiled the reason that there can be life in the universe. That's probably one of those days the universe changed right? Yeah. And that was a remember 1930s. It seems like technology is developing faster and faster and faster. I tend to think just like with Chad G.P.T. I think this year might be extremely interesting just with how rapid and how profitable the efforts and artificial intelligence are that just stuff will happen where our whole world is transformed like this. And where there's a shock and then next day you kind of go on and you adjust immediately. You probably won't have a similar kind of thing with nuclear fusion with energy because there's probably going to be an opening ceremony and stuff like this. And it'll take months. But with with digital technology, you can just have a immediate transformation of society. And then it'll be this gasp and then you kind of adjust like we always do. And then you don't even remember just like with the internet and so on how the days work before. And how it worked before right now. I mean fusion will be because this energy, it's nature is that it will be and anything that has to do with energy use tends to be a slower transition. But there the most, I would argue some of the most profound transitions that we make. I mean the reason that we can live like this and sit in this building and have this podcast and people around the world is at its heart is energy use. And it's intense energy use that came from the evolution of starting to use intense energies at the beginning of the industrial revolution up to now. It's like it's a bedrock actually of all of these. But it doesn't tend to come overnight. Yeah. And some of the most important, some of the most amazing technologies one we don't notice because we take it for granted because it enables this whole thing. Which is energy, which is amazing for how fundamental it is to our society in way of life is a very poorly understood concept actually. Just even energy itself, people confuse energy sources with energy storage, with energy transmission, these are different physical phenomena, which are very important. So for example, you buy an electric car and you go, oh good, I have an emission free car. And, ah, but it's like so. So why do you say that? Well, it's because if I draw the circle around the car, I have electricity and it doesn't admit anything. Okay, but you plug that into a grid where you follow that wire back. There could be a coal power plant or a gas power plant. At the end of that. Oh, really? So this isn't like carbon free. Oh, and it's not their fault is just, you know, they don't like the car isn't a source of energy. The underlying source of energy was the combustion of the fuel backs and work. Plus, there's also a story of how the raw materials are mined in which parts of the world with sort of basic respect or deep disrespect of human rights that happens in that money. So the whole supply chain, there's a story there that's deeper than just the particular car with the circle around it. And the physics or the science of it too is the energy use that it takes to do that digging up, which is also important and all that. Yeah. Anyway, so yeah, we wandered away from fusion, but yes, but it's very important actually in the context of this just because you know, those of us who work in infusion and these other kinds of sort of disruptive energy technologies, it's interesting. I do think about like what would it, what is it going to mean to society to have an energy source that is like this? That would that would be like fusion, you know, which has which is such completely different characteristics. For example, you know, free unlimited access to the fuel, but it has technology implications. So what does this mean geopolitically? What does it mean for how we how we distribute wealth within our society? It's it's very difficult to know, but probably profound. Yeah, we're going to have to find another reason to start wars. Uh, first instead of resources, we're going to have to wait. We've done a pretty good job of that over the course of our history. So we talked about the forces of physics and again sticking to the philosophical before we get to the specific technical stuff, e equals, I'm sorry, you mentioned. How amazing is that to you that energy and mass are the same? And what does that have to do with nuclear fusion? So it has to do with everything we do. It's the fact that energy and mass are equivalent to each other. They're just the way we usually comment to it is that they're just energy just in different forms. Can you intuitively understand that? Yes. But it takes a long time. I haven't for all about usually often I've I teach the the introductory class for incoming nuclear engineers. And and so we put this up as an equation and we go through many iterations of using this. How you derive it, how you use it, so forth. And then you usually in the final exam, I would give, I would basically take all the equations that I've used before and I flip it around. I basically instead of thinking about energy is equal to mass. It's sort of mass is equal to energy. And I ask the question a different way and usually what half the students don't get it. It takes a while is to get that intuition. Yeah. So so in the end, it's interesting is that this is is actually the source of all free energy because that energy that we're talking about is kinetic energy. If it can be transformed from mass. So it turns out even even though we we used equals mc squared. This is burning coal and burning gas are and burning wood is actually still equals mc squared. The problem is that you would never know this because the relative change in the mass is incredibly small. By the way, which comes back to fusion is which is that equals mc squared. Okay, so what does this mean? It tells you that the the amount of energy that is liberated in a particular reaction when you change mass has to because c squared is that the speed of light squares. A large number. It's a very large number and it's totally constant everywhere in the universe, which is another weird thing. Which is another weird thing and in all rest frames and the actually the relatively stuff gets more difficult conceptually until you get through anyway. So you go you go to that and and it's in what that tells you is that it's the relative it's the relative change in the mass. We'll tell you about the relative amount of energy that's liberated and this is what makes fusion and you asked about fusion as well. This is what makes them extraordinary is because the relative change in the mass is very large as compared to what you get like in a chemical reaction. In fact, it's about it's about 10 million times larger. And that is at the heart of why you use something like fusion. It's because that is a fundamental of nature like you can't beat that. So of whatever you do if you're thinking about and why do I care about this will cause mass is like the fuel right. So this means gathering the resources that it takes to gather a fuel to hold it together to deal with it the environmental impact it would have. And fusion will always have 20 million times the amount of energy release per reaction that you get of those. So this is why you know we consider it the ultimate like environmentally friendly energy source is because of that. So is it is a correct to think of mass broadly as a kind of storage of energy. Yes. You mentioned it's environmentally friendly so. Nuclear fusion is a source of energy. It's cheap, clean, safe. So easy access to fuel and virtual element of supply. No production of greenhouse gases. Little radioactive waste produced allegedly. Can you sort of elaborate why it's cheap, clean and safe. I'll start with the easy one cheap. It is not cheap yet because it hasn't been made at a commercial scale. Right. And flies when you're having fun. Yes. Yeah. But yes, not yet. But actually we'll come back to that because it this is cheaper or more technically correct term that it's economic that it's economically interesting is is really the primary challenge actually a fusion at this point. But I think we get back to that. So what were the other ones you said. So cheap were actually when we're talking about cheap. We're thinking like asymptotically like. If you take it forward. Yeah. Several hundred years. That's sort of because of how much availability there is of resources to use of the fuel. Yeah, the fuel. We should separate those two. The fuel will all the fuel is already cheap. It's basically free. Right. What do you mean by basically free? So if if we were to be using fusion a fuel sources to power your and it's like that's all we had to fusion power plants around and we were doing it. The fuel cost per person or something like 10 cents a year. It's like it's free. Okay. This is why it's hard to and some ways I think it's hard to understand fusion because people see this and go. If the fuel is free, this means the energy sources free because we're used to energy sources like this. So we you know we spend resources and drill to get gas or oil or we chop wood or we make coal. We find coal or these things. Right. So fusion. This is what makes fusion and it's also. It's not an intermittent renewable energy source like wind and solar. So it's like, but this is this makes it hard to understand. So as you're saying the fuel is free. Why isn't the like why isn't the energy source free? And it's because of the necessary technologies which must be applied to basically recreate the conditions which are in stars. In the center of stars in fact. So there's only one natural place in the universe that fusion fusion energy occurs. That's in the center of stars. So that's going to bring a price to it depending on the cost and sorry the size and complexity of the technology that's needed to recreate those things. And we'll talk about the details of the technologies and which parts might be expensive today and which parts might be expensive in too long. Exactly. It will have a revolution. I'm certain of it. So about clean. So clean is at its heart. What it does is convert it basically converts hydrogen into it's heavier forms of hydrogen. The one the most predominant one that we use on earth and converts it into helium and some other products. But primarily helium is the product that's left behind. So helium safe inert gas. You know, in fact that's actually what our son is doing is eventually going to extinguish itself because it'll just make so much helium. It doesn't it doesn't do that. So in that sense clean because there's no there's no emissions of carbon or pollutants that come directly from the combustion of the fuel itself and safe. Safe. Yeah. We're talking about very high temperatures. Yeah. So this is also the counter intuitive thing. So I told you temperatures which like 50 million degrees or it actually tends to be more like about a hundred million degrees is really what we aim for. So how can a hundred million degrees be safe? And it's safe because it is. This is so much hotter than anything on earth where everything on earth is at around 300 Kelvin. It's around a few tens of degrees Celsius. And what this means is that in order to get a medium to those temperatures you have to completely isolate it from anything to do with terrestrial environment. It can have no contact like with anything on earth basically. So this means what we this is the technology that I just described is it fundamentally what it does is it takes this fuel. And it isolates it from any terrestrial condition so that it has no idea it's on earth. It's not touching any object that that's at room temperature. Including the walls of the containment even including the walls of the containment building or containment to the ice or even air or anything like this. So so it's that part that makes it safe in this and there's actually another aspect to it. But that that fundamental part makes it so safe. And in the main lines approach diffusion is also that it's very hot where there's very very few particles in at any time in the thing that we be the power plant. The actually the more correct way to do it is you say there's very few particles per unit volume. So in a cubic centimeter and cubic meters so we can do this. So right now we're although we don't think of air really as there's atoms floating around us and there's a density. Because if I wave my hand I can feel that the air pushing against my face. That means we're in a fluid or a gas which is around us. That has a particular number of atoms per cubic meter. Right. So it's about this actually turns out to be 10 to the 25th. So this is one with 25 zeros behind it per cubic meter. So we can figure out like cubic like cubic meters about like this. Yeah. The volume of this table like the whole volume is stable. Okay, very good. So like fusion or a few of those. So fusion like the mainstream want a fusion like what we're working on at MIT will have a hundred thousand times less particles per unit volume than that. So this is a very interesting because it's extraordinarily hot, a hundred million degrees, but it's very tenuous. And what matters from the engineering and safety point of view is the amount of energy which is stored per unit volume because this tells you about the scenarios of the and that's what you worry about because when those kinds of energies are released suddenly. It's like what would be the consequences. Right. So the consequences of this are essentially zero because that's less energy content than boiling water. Because of the low density because of the low density. So if you take water is at about a hundred million to a billion times more dense than this. So even though it's at much lower temperature, it's actually still it has more energy content. So for this reason, you know, one of the ways that I explain this is that if you imagine a power plant that's like powering Cambridge massachusetts. Like if you were to what you wouldn't do this directly, but if you went like this on it, it actually extinguishes the fusion because it gets too cold immediately. Yeah. So that's the other one. And the other part is that it does not in the because it works by staying hot rather than a chain reaction, it can't run out of control. That's the other part of it. So by the way, this is what very much distinguishes it from fusion. It's not a process that can run away from you because it's it's basically thermally stable. What is thermostable me? That means is that you want to run it at the optimization in temperature such that if it deviates away from that temperature, the reactivity gets lower. And the reason for this is because it's hard to keep the reactivity going. Like it's a very hard fire to keep going basically. Also, it doesn't it doesn't run away from you. It can't run away from how difficult is the control there to keep it at that. It varies from from concept to concept, but in general, it's fairly it's fairly easy to do that. And the easiest thing it can't it can't physically run away from you because the other part of it is that there's just at any given time. There's a very, very small amount of fuel available to fuse it anyway. So this means that that's always intrinsically limited to this. So if it even if the power consumption of the device goes up, it just kind of burns itself out immediately. Yeah. So you are the just to take a tan another tangent on tangent. You're the director of MIT's plasma science, a fusion center. We'll talk about maybe you can mention some interesting aspects of the history of the center in the broader history of MIT. Team may be brought to history of science and engineering in the history of human civilization, but also just the link on the safety aspect. You know, how do you prevent some of the amazing reactions that you're designing? How do you prevent from destroying all human civilization in the process? What's the safety protocols fusion is interesting because it's not really directly weaponizable because what I mean by that is that you have you have to work very hard to make these conditions and which you can get energy gain from fusion. And this means that the when we design these devices with respect to application in the energy field is that they, you know, the while while they will because they're producing large amounts of power and they will have hot things inside of them, this means that they have like a level of industrial hazard, which is very similar to that you would have like an chemical processing plant or anything like that and any kind of energy plant actually has these as well too. But the underlying under underneath the core technology, like can't be directly used in a nefarious way because of the power that's being emitted. It just basically, well, if you try to do those things typically it just stops working. So the safety concerns have to do with just regular things that like equipment malfunctioning, melting of a quit like all this kind of stuff that has nothing to do with fusion necessarily. I mean, usually what we worry about is the viability because in the end we build pretty complex objects to realize these requirements. And so what we try really hard to do is like not damage those components, which, but those are things which are internal to the to the fusion device and this is not something that you would consider about like it would, as you say, destroy human civilization because that release of energy is just inherently limited because of the fusion process. So it doesn't say that there's zero. So you asked about the other feature that it's safe. So it is the process itself is intrinsically safe, but because it's a complex technology, you still have to take into amount consideration aspects of the safety. So it produces ionizing radiation instantaneously. So you have to take care of this, which means that you shield it. Think of like your dental X rays or treatments for cancer and things like this. We always shield ourselves from this. So we get the beneficial effects, but we minimize the harmful effects of those. So there are there are those aspects of it as well too. Yeah. So we return to MIT's plasma science, the fusion center, but let us linger on the destruction of human civilization, which brings us to the topic of nuclear vision. What is that? So the the process that is inside nuclear weapons and current nuclear power plants. So it relies on the same underlying physical principle, but it's exactly the opposite of which actually the names imply fusion means bringing things together. Fission means splitting things apart. So fusion requires the heaviest instead of the lightest and the most unstable versus the most stable elements. So this tends to be uranium or plutonium primarily uranium. So take uranium. So uranium 235 is one of the this is one of the heaviest unstable elements. And what happens is that this is and fusion is triggered by the fact that one of the subatomic particles, the neutron, which has no electric charge. Basically gets in proximity enough to this and triggers an instability affectively inside of this. What is teedering on the border of instability and basically splits it apart. And that's the fission right fissioning. And so when that happens because the products that are and kind of roughly splits into but it's not even that it's actually more complicated splits into this whole array of lighter elements and nuclei. And when that happens, there's less rest mass. And then there's less rest mass. So it's actually the same. So again, it's rearrangement of the strong nuclear force that's happening. But that's the source of energy. And so in the end, it's like, so this is a famous graph that we show everybody is is basically it turns out every element that exists in the periodic table, all the things that make up everything. And so you have a member you asked the good question was like, so should we think of mass as being the same as stored energy. Yes. So you can make a plot that basically shows the relative amount of stored energy in all of the elements that are stable and make up basically the world. Okay, in the universe. And it turns out that this one has a maximum amount of stability or storage at iron. So it's kind of in the middle of the periodic table because this goes from this roughly that. And so this what that means is that if if you take something heavier than iron like uranium, which is much more than twice as heavy that that. And you split apart if somehow just magically you just split apart its constituents and you get something that's lighter. That will because it moves to a more stable energy state and releases kinetic energy. That's the energy that we use. Kinetic energy meaning the movement of things. So it's actually an energy you can do something with and fusion sits on the other side of that because it's also moving towards iron, but it has to do it through fusion together. So this leads to some pretty profound differences. As I said, they have some underlying physics or science. Proximity to each other, but they're literally the opposite. So fusion, why is this it actually goes into practical implications of it, which is that vision can happen at room temperature. It's because there's this neutron has no electric charge and therefore it's literally room temperature neutrons that actually trigger the reaction. So this means. In order to establish what's going on with it and it works by chain reaction is that you can do this at room temperature. So Enrico Fermi did this like on a university campus University of Chicago campus. The first sustained chain reaction was done underneath a squash court with a big blocks of graphite. It was still don't get me wrong. An incredible human achievement, right. But that's you know, and then you think about fusion. I have to build a contraption of some kind that's going to get to 100 million degrees. Okay, wow. That's a big difference. The other one is about the chain reaction that namely fission works by the fact that when that fission occurs, it actually produces free neutrons. Free neutrons, particularly if they get slowed down to room temperature, trigger, can trigger other fission reactions if there's other uranium nearby or fissomatory. So this means that the way that it releases energy is that you set this up in a very careful way such that every on average every reaction that happens. Exactly releases enough neutrons and so down that they actually make another reaction one exactly one. And that means is that because each reaction releases a fixed amount of energy, you do this and then in time this looks like just a constant power output. So that's how our fission power plan works. And so there's control of the chain reactions is extremely difficult and extremely important for very important. And when you intentionally design it that it creates more than one fission reaction per per starting reaction that it exponentials away. Which is which is what nuclear weapons. Yeah, so how does an atomic weapon work? How does a hydrogen bomb work asking for a friend? Yeah, so at its heart, what it had what you do is you very quickly put together enough of these materials that can undergo fission with room temperature neutrons. And you put them together fast enough that what happens is that this process can essentially grow mathematically like very fast. And so this releases large amounts of energy. So that's the underlying reason that it works. So you've heard of a fusion weapon. So this is interesting is that it is it but it's dislike fusion energy in the sense that what happens is that you're using fusion reactions to but it's simply it increases the gain actually of the weapon rather than it's not a pure at its heart. It's still a fusion weapon. You're just using fusion reactions as a sort of intermediate catalyst to basically to get even more energy out of it. But it's not directly applicable to to be used in energy source. Does it terrify you just again to step back at the philosophical the humans have been able to use physics and engineering to create such powerful weapons. I wouldn't say terrify. I mean, we should be. This is the this is the progress of human every time that we've gotten access you talking to the day the universe changed. This really changed when we got access to new kinds of energy sources, but every time you get acts and typically what this meant was you get access to more intense energy. That's and that's what that was. And so the ability to move from burning wood to using coal to using gasoline and petrol and then finally to use this is that. Is that both the potency and the consequences are elevated around those things is just like you said the way that fusion nuclear fusion would change the world. I don't think unless we think really deeply will be able to anticipate some of the things we can create. There's going to be a lot of amazing stuff. But then that amazing stuff is going to enable more amazing stuff and more unfortunately or. Depending on how you see it more powerful weapons well, yeah, but see that's the thing fusion breaks that trend in the following way. So one of them so fusion doesn't work on a chain reaction. There's no chain reaction zero. So this means it cannot physically exponentially away on you because it works. And actually this is why star by the way we know this already is why stars are so stable. Why most stars and sons are so stable is because they are regulated through their own temperature and their heating. Because what's happening is not that there's some probability of this exponentially away is that the energy that's being released by fusion basically is keeping the fire hot. And these tend to be you know and when it comes down to thermodynamics and things like this. There's a reason for example is pretty easy to keep of constant temperature like in an oven and things like this. It's the same thing in fusion. So this is actually one of the features that I would argue fusion breaks the breaks. The trend of this is that it's it has more energy intensity than than vision on paper. But it actually does not have the consequences of control and sort of rapid release of the energy because it's actually. It the physical system just doesn't want to do that. Yeah, we're going to have to look elsewhere for the weapons with which we fight world or three. Fair enough. So what is plasma that you may have never not mentioned you mentioned ions and I tried to so much. So what is plasma what is the role of plasma in nuclear fusion. So plasma is a phase of matter or state of matter so. Unfortunately our schools don't it's like I'm not sure why this is the case but it all all children learn the three phases of matter right so. And what does this mean so we'll take water as an example so if you if it's cold it's ice it's in a solid phase right. And then if you heat it up the temperature the typically depends sets the phase of those not it's not only temperature. So you heat it up and you go to a liquid and obviously it changes its physical properties because it can you can pour it and so forth right. And then if you heat this up enough it turns into a gas and a gas behaves differently because there's a very sudden change in the density actually that's what's happening so it changes by about a factor of 10,000 in density from the from the liquid phase into when you make an into steam atmosphere pressure all very good. Except the problem is they forgot like what happens if you just keep elevating the temperature you don't want to give kids ideas. I can start experimenting and I'm going to start heating up the gas. It's good to start anyway so you it turns out that once you get above it's approximately five or 10,000 degrees Celsius then you hit a new phase of matter and actually that's the phase of matter that is for all pretty much all the temperatures that are above that as well too. And so what does that mean so it actually changes phase is a different state of matter and the reason that it becomes a different state of matter is that it's hot enough that what happens is that the atoms that make up remember go back to Feynman right everything's made up of these individual things these atoms but atoms can actually themselves be which are which are made of nuclei which contain the positive particles in the neutrons and then the electron. And so what happens is that the electrons which are very very light very much less mass than the nucleus and that's around this this is what makes up an atom. So a plasma is what happens when you start pulling away enough of those electrons that they're free from the ion so almost all the atoms that make up us up in this water and all that the electrons are in tightly bound states and basically they're extremely stable once you're about 5,000 or 10,000 degrees you start pulling off the electrons. And what this means is that now the medium that is there it's constituent particles have mostly have net charge on them. So why does that matter it's because now this means that the particles can interact through their electric charge in some sense they were when it was in the atoms will do but now that they're free particles. This means that they start it fundamentally changes the behavior it doesn't behave like a gas it doesn't behave like a solid or liquid behaves like a plasma right and so what why is this why is it disappointing that we don't speak about this is because 99% of the universe is in the plasma state it's called stars. And in fact our own sun at the center of the sun is what clearly a plasma but actually the surface of the sun which is around 5,500 Celsius is also a plasma. Because it's hot enough that is that in fact the things that you see sometimes you see these pictures from the surface of the sun amazing satellite photographs of like those big arms of things and of light coming off of the surface of the sun and solar flares those are plasmas. What are some interesting ways that this force data matters different than gas. Let's go to how a gas works right so the reason a gap and it goes back to five minutes brilliance insane that this is the most important concept the reason actually solid liquid and gas phase is working because the nature of the interaction between the atoms changes. And so in a gas you can think of this as being this room and the things that you can't see them is that the molecules are flying around but then with some frequency they basically bounce into each other and when they bounce into each other the exchange momentum and energy around on this. And so it turns out that the probability and the distances and the scattering of those of what they do it's it's those interactions that set the about how a gas behaves. So what do you mean by this was so for example if I take an imaginary test particle of some kind like I spray something into the air that's got a particular color in fact you can do it in liquids as well too. Like how it gradually will disperse away from you this is this is fundamentally set because of the way that those particles are bouncing into the probabilities of those. Yeah the rate that they go at and the distance that they go out and so forth so this is figured out by Einstein and others at the beginning of the brownie motion all these kinds of things these were set up at the beginning of the last century and was really like this great revelation wow this is why matter behaves the way that it does. Like wow so but it's really like and also in liquids and insolids like what really matters is is is is how you're interacting with your nearest neighbor. So you think about that one the gas particles are basically going around until they until they actually hit into each other though they don't really exchange information and it's the same in a liquid you're kind of beside each other which you can kind of move around in a solid you're literally like stuck beside your neighbor you can't move like. Plasmas are weird in the sense is that they're it's not like that so it is because the particles have electric charge this means that they can push against each other without actually being in close proximity to each other it's not that's not an infinitely true statement which goes together it's a little bit more technical but basically this means that you can start having action or exchange of information at a distance. And that's in fact the definition of a plasma that it says the this have a technical name is called a cool home collisions just means that it's dictated by this force which is being pushed between the charge particles is that the definition of a plasma is a is a medium in which the collective behavior is dominated by these collisions at a distance. So you can imagine then this starts to give you some strange behaviors which I could I could quickly talk about like for one of the most counterintuitive ones is as plasma's get more hot as they get higher in temperature then the collisions happen less frequently like what that doesn't make any sense when particles go faster you think they would collide more often. But because the particles are interacting through interacting through their electric field when they're going faster they actually spend less time in the influential field of each other and so they talk to each other less and an energy momentum exchange point to you. And it's just one of the count one of the counterintuitive aspects of plasma's which is probably very relevant for nuclear fusion yes exactly so if I can try to summarize what a nuclear fusion reactor is supposed to do. So you have what a couple of elements what are usually the elements usually deuterium and tritium which are the heavy forms of hydrogen hydrogen you have those and you start heating it. And then as you start heating it I forgot the temperature you said but you know first first it becomes oh first it becomes plasma so it's a gas and then it turns into a plasma about 10,000 degrees and then see a bunch of electrons and ions flying around and then you keep heating the thing. And I guess you heat the thing that ions hit each other rare and rare so man that's not fun so you have to keep heating it such that you have to keep hitting into the probability of them colliding becomes reasonably high. And so also on top of that and sorry to interrupt you have to prevent them from hitting the walls of the reactor somehow. So you asked about the definitions of the requirements for fusion so the most famous one or some sense the most intuitive one is the temperature and the reason for that is that you can make many many kinds of plasmas that have zero fusion going on in them. And the reason for this is that the average you can make a plasma at around 10,000 in fact if you come by the way you're welcome to come to our laboratory at the PSFC I can show you a demonstration of a plasma that you can see with your eyes and sit at about 10,000 degrees and you can put your hand up beside it and all this and it's like and nothing there's zero fusion going on. So you have a side what was the temperature of the plasma about 10,000 you can stick your hand in well you can't stick your hand into it but there's a glass tube you can basically see this. Yeah, yeah and you can put your hand on the glass tube because it's what's the color is purple it's it's purple yeah. Yeah, it's beautiful. It is it is kind of beautiful. Yeah, plasma is actually quite astonishing sometimes in their beauty actually one of the most amazing forms of plasma is lightning by the way which is instantaneous form of plasma that exists on earth but immediately goes away because everything else around is that room temperature. Yeah, so there's different requirements in this so making a plasma takes about this but at 10,000 degrees even at a million degrees there's almost no probability of the fusion reactions occurring and this is because. While the the charge particles can hit into each other if you go back to the very beginning of this remember I said oh these charge particles have to get to within distances which are like this. Size of a nucleus because of the strong nuclear force well. Unfortunately as the particles get closer this the repulsion that comes from the charge the coolant force increases like the inverse distance squared no no so as they get closer they're pushing harder and harder apart. So then it gets a little bit more exotic which you maybe like though that it turns out that you people understood this in the at the beginning of the of the age of after brother for discover the nucleus is like oh yeah it's like how are we going to house is going to work right because how do you get anything within these distances is required extraordinary energy and it does and in fact when you look at those energies they're very very high. But it turns out quantum physics comes to the rescue because the particles aren't aren't actually just particles there also waves this is the point of quantum right the you can treat them both as waves and as as particles and it turns out if you get if they get in close enough proximity to each other then the particle pops through basically this energy barrier through an effect called quantum tunneling which is really just the transposition of the fact that it's a wave so that has a finite probability of this it's this by the way you talk about like do you have a hard time like conceptualizing this these are what this is one of them quantum times one of this is like throwing a ping pong ball like at a piece of paper and then every like you know 100 of them just like magically show up on the other side of the paper without seemingly breaking the paper I mean yeah to use a physical analogy and that that phenomenon is important is a is a critical for the function of nuclear fusion yes for all kinds of fusion so this this is the reason why stars can work as well to like the stars would have to be much much harder actually to build in fact it's not clear that they would actually ignite in fact with well this effect and so we get to that so this is why there's another requirement it's it's not so you must make a plasma but you also also must get it very hot in order for the reactions to have a significant probability to actually fuse and it actually falls to effectively almost zero for lower temperatures as well to so there's some nice equation yes that gets you to 50 million degrees or like yeah the or you said practically speaking a hundred million so it's a really simple equation is the ideal gas law basically almost always the end you've got a certain number of particle of these fusion particles in the plasma state they're in the plasma state there's a certain number of particles and if the confinement is perfect if you put in a certain content of energy then basically eventually they just they come up in a temperature and they become they they go up they go up to high temperature this turns out to be by the way extraordinarily small amounts of energy and you go what it's like I'm getting something to like a hundred million degrees that's going to take the biggest flame burner that I've ever seen no and the reason for this is it goes back to the energy content of of this so yeah you have to there's you have to get it to high average energy but there's very very few particles there's low density it's a low density and a reactor is this so you with the way that you do this is primarily again this is not exactly true in all kinds of a fusion but in the in the primary one that we work on a magnetic fusion this is all happening in a hard vacuum so it's like it's happening in outer space so basically you've gotten rid of all the other particles except for these specialized so you had them one at a time no actually it's even easier than that you you connect a gas valve and you basically leak gas into it in a controlled fashion yeah yeah well this is beautiful how do you gas cylinder how do you get it from hitting the walls yeah so now you've touched on the other necessary requirements so it turns out it's not just temperature that's required you must also confine it so what does this mean confine it and there's two types of confines you mentioned you mentioned the magnetic one magnetic one there's a one called inertial as well too but the general principle actually has nothing to do with in particular with what you what with the technology is that you used to confine it it's because this goes back to the fact that the requirement in this is high temperature and thermal content so it's like building a fire man and what this means is that if you when you release the energy into this or or apply heat to this if it just instantly leaks out it can never get hot right so if you're familiar with this is like you've got something that you're you're trying to apply heat to but you're just throwing the heat away very quickly this is why we insulate homes by the way things like that's right it's like you don't want the heat is coming into this room to just immediately leave because you'll just start consuming infinite amounts of heat to try to keep it hot so in the end this is one of the requirements and it actually has a name we call the energy confinement time so this means if you release a certain amount of energy into this fuel kind of how long you sit there and you look at your watch how long is it take for this energy to like leave the system so you could imagine in this room that you know these heaters are putting energy into the air in this room and you waited for a day what all the heat have gone to outside if I open up the windows oh there that's the energy confinement time okay so it's the same concept as that this is an important one so all fusion must have confinement there's another more esoteric reason for this which is that people often confused temperature and energy so what I mean by that so this is literally a temperature which means that it is a system in which all the particles every particle has high kinetic energy and is actually in a fully relaxed state namely that entropy has been maximized and it gets a little bit more technical but this means that basically it is it is a thermal system so it's like the air in this room is like the water is the water in this these all have temperatures which means that there's a distribution of those energies because the particles have collided so much that it's there so we this is distinguished from having high energy particles like what we have in like particle accelerators like certain and so forth those are high kinetic energy but it's not a temperature so it actually doesn't count as confinement so we go through all those you have temperature and then the other requirement not too surprising is actually that there has to be enough density of the fuel enough but not too much yes and so in the end the way that there's a fancy name for it is called the Lawson criterion because it was formulated by scientists in the United Kingdom about 1956 or 1957 and this was essentially the realization oh this is what it's going to take regardless of the confinement method these are this is the basic what it is actually power balance is just says oh there's a certain amount of heat coming in which is coming from the fusion reaction itself because the fusion reaction heats the fuel versus how fast you would lose it and it basically summarize it's summarized by those three parameters which is fairly simple so temperature and then the reason we say 100 million degrees is because almost all way in for this kind of fusion due to the intrudium fusion the minimum in the density and the confinement time product is at about 100 million so you almost always design your device around that minimum and then you try to get it contained well enough and you try to get enough density so you know so that temperature things sounds crazy right that's what we've actually achieved in the laboratory like our experiment here at MIT when it ran its optimum configuration it was at 100 million degrees but it wasn't actually the product of the density and the confinement time wasn't sufficient that we were to place that we were getting high net energy gain but it was making fusion reactions so this is the sequence that you go through make a plasma then you get it hot enough and we get it hot enough the fusion reaction start happening so rapidly that it's overcoming the rate that which is leaking heat to the outside world and at some point it just becomes like a star like a sun and our own our own sun and a star doesn't have anything plugged into it it's just keeping itself hot through its own fusion reactions in the end that's really close to what a fusion power plant would look like what does it visually look like does it does it look like like you said like purple plasma yeah actually it's it's invisible to the eye because it's so hot that it's basically emitting light in frequencies that we can't detect it's literal it's invisible in fact light goes through it visible light goes through it so easy that if you were to look at it what you would see in our own particular configuration what we make is in the end is a donut shaped it's a vacuum vessel to keep the air out of it and when you when you turn on the plasma it gets so hot that most of it just disappears in the visible spectrum you can't see anything and there's very very cold plasma which is between 10 and 100,000 degrees which is out in the very periphery of it which is kind of so the very cold plasma is allowed to interact with the kind of has to interact with something eventually at the boundary of the vacuum vessel and this kind of makes a little halo around it and it glows as beautiful purple light basically and these are that's the that's the that's what we can sense in the human spectrum yeah I remember reading on the subreddit called shower thoughts which people should check out it's just fascinating philosophical ideas that strike you while you're in the shower and one of them was it's lucky that fire when it burns communicates that it's hot using visible light otherwise human humans would be screwed I don't know if there's a deeper found truth to that but nevertheless I did find it on shower thoughts subreddit actually I do have the there this goes off in a bit of you're right this is actually it's interesting because you know as a scientist you also think about evolutionary functions and how we got like why do we have the senses that we do yeah it's interesting question like why can B see an ultraviolet and we can't then you go well it's natural selection for some reason this wasn't really particularly important to us right why can't we see in the infrared and other things can it's like it's a fascinating question right obviously there's some there's some advantage that you have there that isn't there and even color distinguishing right of something safety ease not say whatever it would be I actually go back to this because it's something that I tell all of my my students when I'm teaching ionizing radiation and radiological safety whatever you say there's a cultural concern or that when people hear the word radiation like what does this mean it literally just means light is what it means right but it's light in different parts of the spectrum right and so it turns out besides the visible light that we can see here we are immersed in almost the totality of the electromagnetic spectrum there is visible light there's infrared light there is microwaves going around as our cell phone works you can't it's way past our detection capability but also higher energy ones which have to do with ultraviolet light how you get a sunburn and even x-rays and things like this at small levels are continually being like from the concrete in the walls of this hotel there's x-rays hitting our body continuously I can bring out I mean we can go down to the lab at MIT and bring out a detector and show you every single room will have and have these by our body you mean the 10 to the 28 atoms yeah the 10 to the 28 atoms and they're coming in and they're interacting with those things and those particularly the ones where the light is at higher average energy per light particle those are the ones that can possibly have an effect on human health so we we are it's interesting humans and all animals of evolved on earth where we're immersed in that all the time yeah there's natural source of radiation all the time yet we have zero ability to detect it like zero yeah in our ability cognitive ability to filter it all out and not it would probably overwhelm us actually if we could see all of it but my main point is goes back to your thing about fire and self protection if if these ionizing if ionizing radiation was such a critical aspect of the health of organisms on earth we would almost certainly have evolved methods to detect it and we have none and yes the physical world that's all around is yeah you're blowing my mind Dr. Dennis White okay let's so you have experience with magnetic confinement do you have experience with the commercial confinement most of your work has been a magnetic confinement but let's sort of talk about the the sexy recent thing for for a bit of a time there's been a breakthrough in the news that laser based inertial confinement was used by DOE's national ignition facility at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory can you explain this breakthrough that happened in December? yeah so it goes to the set of criteria that I talked about before about getting high energy gain so in the end what what are we after infusion is that we we basically assemble this plasma fuel in some way and we provided a starting amount of energy think of lighting the fire and what you want to do is get back like significant excess gain from the fact that the fusion is is making more is releasing the energy so it's like the equivalent of like we want to have a match a small match light a fire and then the fire keeps us hot this is very much like that so as I said we've we've made many of the in what we mean by we it's like the fusion community has pursued aspects of this through a variety of different confinement methodologies is that the the key part about what happens what was a threshold we had never gotten over before was that if you only consider the plasma fuel not the not the total engineering system but just the plasma fuel itself we had not gotten to the point yet where basically the size of the match was was smaller than the amount of energy that we got from the fusion is there good term for when the output is greater than the input yes yes it there is well there's several special definitions of this so one of them is that if you if you like in a fire if you like a match and you have it there and it's an infinitesimal amount of energy compared to what you're getting out of the fire we call this ignition which makes sense right this is like what this what our own son is as well too so that that was not ignition in that sense as well to so what we call this the scientific what the one that we I just talked about which is for some instance when I get enough fusion energy released compared to the size of the match we call this scientific break even break even break even and it's because you've gotten past the fact that this is unity now at this point what is fusion gain or as using the notation q from the paper or you spoke talking about before talk using just the same kind of actually so that is sorry the technical term is q capital q so good people actually use q we actually use capital q or somebody's is called to you can q sub p or something like this okay so this is which which means the which what what it means is that it's in the plasma so all we're considering is the energy balance or gain that comes from the plasma itself we're not considering the technologies which are around it which are providing the containment and so forth so what why the excitement and so well because for one reason it's a rather simple it's a rather simple threshold to get over to understand that you're getting more energy out from the fusion even the theoretical sense than you were from the you know from the starting match you mean conceptually simple conceptually simple that you get past one that everyone under like when you're less than one that's much less interesting than getting past one because I really think you started to get past but it's really it really is a scientific threshold because what q p actually the notes is the relative amount of self heating that's happening in the in the plasma so what I mean by this is that in the end in these systems for and what you want is something that where the relative amount of of heating which is keeping the fuel hot is dominated by from the fusion reactions themselves and so it becomes it's sort of like thinking like a bonfire is a lot more interesting physically then just holding a blow torch to a wet log right there's a lot more dynamics it's a lot more self evolved and so where and what we're excited as a scientist is that it's clear that the in that experiment that they actually got to a point where the fusion reactions themselves were actually altering the state of the plasma it's like wow I mean we've seen it in glimpses before in magnetic confinement at relatively small levels but apparently it seems like in this experiment it's likely to be a dominant dominated by self heating that's a very important that's a very important so that makes it a self-sustaining type of it's more self-sustaining it's more self-referential system in a sense and it sort of self evolves in a way again it's not that it's going to evolve to a dangerous state is just that we want to see what happens when when the fusion is the dominant heating source and we'll talk about that but so there's also another element which is the initial confinement laser-based initial confinement is kind of a little bit of an underdog so a lot of the good broad nuclear fusion communities but focus on magnetic confinement can you explain just how laser-based inertial confinement works so it says a 192 laser beams were aligned on a deuterium trade-em dt targets smaller than a p this is like the actual be okay well you know it depends not all peas are made the same but this is like throwing a perfect strike in baseball from a pitch this is like a journalist wrote this I think this is like oh no it's not a journal six DOE yeah yeah I can't believe we try to use all these analogies this is like throwing a perfect strike in baseball from a church is about 350 miles away from the plate there you go department of energy the United States Department of Energy wrote this I can explain what the laser's what what what actually happens actually there's usually mass confusion about this so so what's going on in this form of it so the fuel is is is delivered in a discrete the fusion fuel the deuterium and the deuterium is in a discrete spherical it's more like a BB let's call it a BB so it's a small one and all the fuel that you're going to try to burn is basically there and it's about that size so what's so how are you going to get and it's that literally it's like a 20 degrees above absolute zero because the deuterium and rekept in in a liquid and solid state so as a fuel is injected not as a gas and as a solid it's actually and it's very and in these a particular experiments they can introduce one of these you know these targets once per day approximately something like that because it's very it's very it's a very it's a kind of amazing technology actually that I know some people that worked on this back in the is they actually make these things at a BB size of this frozen fuel such a cryogenic temperatures and they're almost like smooth to the atom level I mean they're amazing pieces of technology so what you do in the end is think you what you have is this spherical assembly of this fuel like a ball and what what is the purpose of the lasers the purpose of the lasers is to provide optical energy to the very outside of this and what happens is the that energy is absorbed because it's it's in the solid phase of matter so absorbed really in the surface and then what happens is that when it's absorbed in something called the ablater what does that mean it means it goes instantly from the solid phase to the gas phase so it is like a rocket engine and but you hit it like very uniformly so all there's like rocket engines coming off the surface think of like an asteroid almost was like rockets coming off all this so what does that do what is a rocket do it actually pushes by Newton's laws right it pushes the other thing on the other side of it equal in opposite reaction it pushes it in so what it does is that the lasers actually don't heat this is what was using people think the lasers over going to get it to 100 million degrees in fact you want the exact opposite of this what you want to do is get essentially a rocket going out like this and then what happens is that the sphere like this is happening in a billionth of a second or or last actually this rapidly that that force like so rapidly compresses the fuel that what happens is that you're squeezing down on it and and and you know it's like what was the see bad actually be I should have started with a basketball basket goes from like a basketball down to something like like this and the billionth of a second and when that when that happens I mean scale that in your mind so when that happens and in this comes from almost from classical physics so there's some quantum in it as well too but basically if you can do this like very uniformly and so called a diabolically like you're not actually eating the fuel what happens is you get a diabolic compression such that the very center of this thing all of a sudden just spikes up in temperature because it's it's it's actually done so fast so why is it called a inertial fusion it's because you're doing this on such fast timescales that the inertia of the hot fuel basically is still finite so it can't like push itself apart before the fusion happens oh wow yeah so how do you make it so how do you make it so fast this is why you use lasers because you're applying this energy in very very short periods of time like under a fraction of a billionth of a second and so basically that and then the force which is coming from this comes from the energy of the lasers which which is basically the rocket action which does the compression which says the force is the inward force is that is that increasing the temperature no exponentially you want to keep the fuel cold and then and just literally just ideally compress it and then in something which is at the very center of that compressed sphere because you've compressed it so rapidly the laws of physics basically require for it to increase in temperature so the effect is like if you know the thing so a diabolic cooling actually fairly familiar with if you take a spray can right and you push the button when it when it rapidly expands it cools this is the nature of a lot of cooling technology we use actually well the opposite is true that if you would take all of those particles and jam them together very fast back in they want to heat up and that's what happens and then what happens is you basically have this very cold compressed set of fusion fuel and at the center of this it goes to this hundred million degrees Celsius and so if it gets that hundred million degrees Celsius the fusion fuel starts to burn and when that fusion fuel starts to burn it wants to heat up the other cold fuel around it and it just basically propagates out so fast that what you would do ideally you would actually burn in a fusion sense most of the fuel that's in the pellet so this was very exciting because what they had done was they it's clear that they propagated this they got this what they call a hot spot and in fact that this heating had propagated out into the fuel and that's the that's the science behind a commercial fusion so the idea behind a reactor is based on this kind of inertial confinement is that you would what have a new baby every like ten times a second or something like and then there's some kind of yeah so there's a incredible device that you kind of implied that kind of has to create one of those BBs that so you have to make the BBs very fast there's reports on this but about what what does it mean you know the starting point is can you make this gain so this was a scientific achievement primarily and the rest is just engineering no no no the rest is incredibly complicated engineering well in fact there's still physics hurdles to overcome so so where does this come from and it's actually because if you want to make an energy source out of this this had a gain of around 1.5 that namely the fusion energy was approximately was 1.5 times the laser input energy this is a fairly significant threshold however from the from the science of what I just told you is that there's two fundamental efficiencies which come into it which really come from physics one of them is hydrodynamic efficiency what I mean by this is that it's a rocket so it just has a fundamental efficiency built into it which comes out to orders of like 10% so this means is that your your ability to do work on the system is just limited by that okay and then the other one is the efficiency of laser systems themselves which if the wall plug efficiency is 10% you've done spectacularly well in fact the wall plug efficiency of the ones used in experiments are like more like 1% right so when you go through all of this the approximate you know place that you're ordering this is for a fusion power plant would be a gain of 100 to not 1.5 so you still you know and hopefully we see experiments that keep climbing up towards higher and higher gain but then the the whole fusion power plant is a totally different thing so it's not one it's not one BB and one laser pulse per day it's like 10 times 5 or 10 times per second like did it did it did it like that right so you're doing it there and then then and then comes the other aspect so it's making the targets delivering them being able to repeatedly get them to burn and then we haven't even talked about like how do you then get the fusion energy out which is mainly because these things are basically micro you know implosions which are occurring so this energy is coming out to some medium on the outside that you've got to figure out how to extract the energy out of this thing. How do you convert that energy to electricity? So in the end you have to basically convert it into heat in some way so most of the what you in the end what fusion makes mostly is like high very energetic particles from the fusion reaction so you have to slow those down in some way and then make heat out of it so basically the conversion of the kinetic energy of the particles into heating some engineered material that's on the outside of this. And that's from a physics perspective is it somewhat solve problem but from an engineering is still it's still yeah physics I can draw the I can show you all the equations that tell you about how it slows down and converts kinetic energy into heat and then what that heat means you know you can write out like an ideal thermal cycle like a Carnot cycle so the physics of that yeah great the integrated engineering of this is a whole other thing Alaska to maybe talk about the difference between and they're shown magnetic but first we'll talk about magnetic but let me just linger on this breakthrough you know it's nice to have exciting things but in a deep human sense there's no competition in science and engineering or like you said we were broad first of all we are a humanity altogether you talk about this it's a bunch of countries collaborating it's it's really exciting there's a nuclear fusion community broadly then there's also MIT there's colors and logos and it's exciting and there's a you you have friends and colleagues here that that work extremely hard and done some incredible stuff is there some sort of how do you feel seeing somebody else get a breakthrough and using a different technology that exciting is this the competitive fire get all of the above I mean I mean the ignition you know I have saw you know to you know just to wave the wave the flag a little bit so MIT was a central player in this in this accomplishment interesting I say it showed our two some of our two best traits so one of them was that the like how do you know that this happened this measurement right so one of the ways to do this is if I told you that the in the DT fusion what it actually the product that comes out is helium would call an alpha but it's helium and a free neutron right so the neutron contains 80% of the fusion of the energy released by the fusion reaction and it also because it has lacked it lacks a charge it basically tends to just escape and go flying out so this is what we would use eventually for that's mostly what fusion energy would be but so what my my colleagues my scientific information is that at the Plasas Science and Fusion Center built were extraordinary measurement tools of being able to see the exact details of not only the number of neutrons that were coming out but actually what energy that they're at and by looking at that that configuration it reveals enormous I'm not going to I'm not going to scoop them because they need to publish the paper but it it reveals enormous amounts of scientific information and that process that I just described so excited I mean and I have you know I have colleagues there that worked like for 30 years on this for that moment of course you're excited for them right me and this one of those like see there is there is nothing it's hard to describe to people who aren't it's like almost a dicting to be a scientist when you get to be at the forefront of research of anything like when you cease like an actual discovery of some kind and you're looking at it particularly when you're the person who did it right and you go no human being has ever seen this or understood this it's like it's pretty thrilling right so even even in proxy it's incredibly thrilling to see this it's not I don't know if it's rivalry or jealousy it's like I can tell you already fusion is really hard so anything that keeps pushing the needle forward is a good thing but we also have to be realistic about what it means you know to making a fusion energy system that's that's the that's and then but that's the fun I mean these are the are still the early steps you maybe you can say the early leaps yeah so let's talk about the magnetic confinement yeah what is how does magnetic confinement work what's the talk of Mac yeah how does it all work so go back to that so why inertial confinement works on the same principle that the star works so like what is the confinement mechanism in the star is gravity because it's it's it's it's it's it's own inertia of the something the size of the Sun basically pushes a literally a force by gravity against the center so the center is is very very hot 20 million degrees and literally outside the Sun it's essentially zero because it's vacuum of space how the hell does that do that it does that by and it's out of like why doesn't just leak all of its heat it doesn't leak its heat because it all is held together by the fact that it can't escape because of its own gravity so this is why the fusion happens in the center of the star like we think of the surface of the Sun is being hot that's the coldest part of the star so our own Sun this is about 5500 degrees a beautiful symmetry by the way it's like so how do we know all this because we can't of course see directly into the interior of the Sun by knowing the volume and the temperature of the surface of the Sun you know exactly how much power it's putting out and by this you you know that this is something from fusion reactions occurring at exactly the same rate in the middle of the Sun is it possible as a small tangent to build an inertial confinement system like the Sun is it possible to create a Sun it is of course possible to make a Sun although you do and have stars but it is not impossible on Earth because for the simple reason that it takes the gravitation forces extremely weak and so it takes something like the size of a star to make a Sun occur in the Sun. Well I I didn't mean on Earth I mean if you had to build like a second Sun how'd you do it you can't there's not enough hydrogen around. So the limiting factors the just the hydrogen. I mean the forces that an energy that it takes to assemble that is just mind boggling. All right so we would do that to be continued. Yeah to be continued so what are we doing it with so in the one that I just described is like you say so you have to make a basis with some force which is better than that and so what I mean but it's stronger than that so what I talked about the laser fusion this is coming from the force which is enormous compared to gravity like like from the rocket action of pushing it together. So in magnetic confinement we use another force of nature which is the electromagnetic force and that's very as orders and orders of magnitude stronger than the gravitational force. And the key force that matters here is that if you have a charged particle that namely it's a particle that has an electric net electric charge and it's in the proximity of a magnetic field then there is a force which is exerted on that particle. So it's called the Lorentz force for those are keeping track. So that is the force that we use to replace physical containment. So again, so how do you hold something at a hundred million degrees? It's impossible in a physical container. This is not like you know it's not less plastic bottle holding in this liquid or a gas chamber. What you're doing is you're using and you're immersing the fuel in a magnetic field that basically exerts a force at a distance. This comes back again to again like why plazas are so strange. It's the same thing here and if it's immersed in this magnetic field you're not actually physically touching it but you're making a force go on to it. So that's the inherent feature of magnetic confinement. And then magnetic confinement devices are like a tokamak are basically configurations which exploit the features of that magnetic containment. There's several features to it. One is that the stronger the strength of the magnetic field the stronger the force. And for this reason is that if you increase the strength of magnetic fields this means that the containment because namely the force which you're pushing against it is more effective. And the other feature is that there is no force. So if it was a magnetic field what are these things? They're also invisible. But you know if you think of a permanent magnets or your fridge magnet there are there are field lines which we actually designate as arrows which are going around. You sometimes see this in school when you have the you know the iron filings on a thing and you see the directions of the magnetic field lines or when you use a compass right. So that's telling you in order because we were living in a immersed magnetic field made by the earth which is that very low intensity magnetic strong enough we can actually see what direction is. So this is the arrow that the magnetic field is pointing. It's always pointing north and for us is that. So an interesting feature of this force is that there is no force along the direction of the magnetic field. There's only force in the directions orthogonal to the magnetic field. So this by the way is a huge deal in in in in in a whole other discipline of plasma physics which is like the study of like our near atmosphere. So the study of a rural borealis what's happening in the near atmosphere what happens when solar flares hit the magnetic in fact. Remember I said fusion is the reason that life is responsible in the universe where you could also argue so is magnetic confinement because the the charge particles which are being emitted from from the galaxy and from our own star would be very very damaging to on earth. So we get two layers of protection one is the atmosphere itself but the other one is the magnetic field which is surrounds the earth and basically traps these charge particles so they can get away. It's the same it's the same deal. How do you create a strong magnetic field? Yeah. So the giant magnet giant magnet. Yeah. So it's basically true engineering essentially there's actually two ways to create a magnet. So one of them is that we're familiar with like fridge magnets and so forth. These are so called permanent magnets and what it means is that within these the atoms arrange in a particular way that it produces the electrons basically arranged in a particular way that it produces a permanent magnetic field that is set by the material. So those ten those have a fundamental limitation how strong they can be and they also tend to have this like circular shape like this. So we don't you don't typically use those. So what we use are so called electoral magnets and what is this? It's like so the other way to make a magnetic field also go back to your you know your your elementary school physics or science class is that you take a a nail and you wrap a copper wire around it and connect it to a battery then it can pick up iron filings. This is an electromagnet and it's simplest what it is it's an electric current which is going in a pattern around and around and around and what this does is it produces a magnetic field which goes through it by the laws of electromagnetism. So that's what an electric that's how so that's how we make the magnetic field in these in these configurations and the key there is that you it's not limited by the magnetic property of the material the magnetic field amplitude is set by the kind of the geometry of this thing and the amount of electric current that you're putting through and the more electric electric current that you put through the more magnetic field that you get. The closest one that people maybe see is one of my favorite skits actually was Super Dave Osborne on it's probably probably past years and a show called bizarre Super Dave Osborne which is a great comedian called he was a stuntman and one of his tricks was he gets into a car and then one of those things in the junk yard comes down you know and picks up the car and then puts it into the into the crusher this is his stunt which is a pretty holler anyway but that thing that picks him up like how does that work that's actually not a permanent magnet it's an it's an electoral magnet and so you can turn by turning off and on the power supply it turns off and on the magnetic field so this means you can pick it up and then when you switch it off the magnetic field goes away in the drops okay so that's that's what it looks like speaking of giant magnets MIT and commonwealth fusion systems CFS built a very large high temperature superconducting electric magnet that was ramped up to a field strength of 20 Tesla the most powerful magnetic field of its kind ever created down earth because I enjoy this kind of thing can you please tell me about this magnet. Yes sure. Oh it was. It's fun yeah. There's a lot of parts there so maybe we so we already explain an electromagnet which in general is what you do is you take electric current and you force it to to follow a pattern of some kind typically like a circular pattern around and around and around around it goes the more time the more current and the more times it goes around the stronger the magnetic field that you make clear and as I pointed out it's like really important in magnetic confinement because it is the the force that's produced by that magnet in fact technically it goes like the magnetic field squared because it's the pressure which is actually being exerted on the plasma to keep it contained. Just just so we know for magnetic confinement what is usually the geometry the magnet what do we what is the geometry. Yeah so the geometry is typically that typically is what you do is you want to produce a magnetic field that loops back on itself and the reason for this was goes down to the nature of the force that I described which is that there's no there's no containment or force along the direction of the magnetic field. So here's a magnetic field in fact what it's more technically or more graphically what it's doing is that when the when the plasma is here's plasma particles here here's a magnetic field what it does is it forces all those because of this the the Lorenz force it makes all of those charge particles execute circular orbits around the magnetic field and they go around like this but they stream freely along the magnetic field line. So this is why the nature of the containment is that if you can get that circle smaller and smaller it stays further away from earth temperature materials that's why the confinement gets better but the problem is is that because it free streams along so we just have a long straight magnetic field. Okay it'll just keep leaking out the ends like really fast so you get rid of the ends so you basically loop it back around. So what these look like are typically donut shaped or more technically, terroidal shape but donut shaped things where this collection of magnetic fields loops back on itself and it also for reasons which are more complicated to explain. Basically it also twists that also twists slowly around in this direction as well too. So that's what it looks like that's what the plasma looks like because that's what the fuel looks like. So then this means is that the the electromagnets are configured in such a way that it produces the desired magnetic fields around this. So they precise this has to be. You were probably listening to our conversation with some of my colleagues yesterday. So it's actually it depends on the configuration about how you're doing it. The configuration of the plasma. The configuration of the electromagnets and about how you're achieving this requirement. It's fairly precise but it doesn't have to be in particularly something like a tokamak what we do is we produce planar coils which is mean they're flat and we situate them so if you think of a circle like this what is it produce if you put current through it it produces a magnetic field which goes through the circle like this. So if you align many of them like this, this, this, this, there's things online you can go see the picture to to you keep arranging these around in a circle itself. This forces the magnetic field lines to basically just keep executing around like this. So you tend to align that one tends to require good confine or good alignment. It's not like insane alignment because you're actually exploiting the symmetry of the situation to help it. There's another kind of configuration of magnetic of this kind of magnetic confinement called a stellar kind of, we have these names for historic reasons. Which is different than a tokamak. It's different than a tokamak it actually works on the same physical principle that namely in the end it produces a plasma which loops in magnetic fields which loop back on themselves as well. But in that in that case the totality basically, the totality of the confine magnetic field is produced by external three dimensional magnets so they're twisted. And it turns out the precision of those is more stringent. So our tokamak is by far more popular for research and development currently than stellar Raiders. Of the concepts which are there, the tokamak is by far the most mature in terms of its breadth of performance and thinking about how would it be applied in a fusion energy system. And the history of this was that many, in fact, you asked what we go back to the history of the plasma science and fusion center. The history of fusion is that people scientists had started to work on this in the 1950s. It was all hush hush and cold war and all that kind of stuff. And it's like they realized holy cow. This is like really hard. Like we actually don't really know what we're doing. Because everything was at low temperatures they couldn't get confinement. It was interesting. And then they declassified it. And this is one of the few places that the West and the Soviet Union actually collaborated on was a science. Even during the cold war. Even during the middle of the cold war. It was really, and this actually perpetuates all the way to now for we can talk about the project that that is sort of captured in now. But in the reason they declassified it was because like everything like kind of like sucked basically, you know, about trying to make this confinement at high temperature plasma. And then the Russians then the Soviets came along with this device called the Tokamak, which is a Russian acronym, which basically means magnetic coils arranged in the shape of a donut. And they said holy cow. Like everyone was stuck at like a meager like half a million degrees or half a million degrees, which is like in fusion terms of zero basically. And then they come along and they say, oh, we've actually achieved a temperature 20 times higher than everybody else. And it's actually started to make fusion reactions and everyone just go, oh, you know, no way it's just hype from the so it's like there's no way because we've failed at this. It's a great story in the history of fusion is that then but they insist is that no, look, you can see this from our data. It's like this thing is really hot. And it seems to be working. This is you know, late 1960s. And there was a there was a team that went from the United Kingdom's fusion development lab and they brought this very fancy amazing new technology called a laser. And they use this laser and they shot the laser being like through the plasma. And by looking at the scattered light that came from the they go that basically the scattered light gets more broadened in its spectrum if it gets hotter. So you could you could exactly tell the temperature of this and even though you're not physically feeling the plasma, it's like, holy cow, you're right, it is like it is 10 million degrees. And so this was one of those explosions of like everyone in the world then wanted to build a token back because it was clearly like, wow, this is like so far ahead of everything else that we tried before. So that actually has a part of the story to MIT in the Plausinescent Fusion Center was why is there a strong fusion and a major fusion program at MIT. It was because we were host to the Francis Bitter magnet laboratory, which is also the national high field magnet laboratory. Well, you can see where this goes, right, from this, you know, we're kind of telling the stories backwards almost, but you know, the the the advent of a token Mac, along with the fact that you could makes very strong magnetic fields with the technology that had been developed at that laboratory, that was the origins of sort of pushing together the physics of the plasma containment and the magnet technology and put them together in a way that I would say is, you know, a very typical MIT success story, right? We don't do just pure science or pure technology. We sort of set up this intersection between them and there were several pioneers that of my of the of people at MIT, like Bruno Coppy, who's a professor in the physics department and Ron Parker, who was a professor in electrical engineering and nuclear engineering, so like even the makeup of the people, right, has got this lens of science and engineering in them. And that's actually was the origin of the Plow Science and Fusion Center was was doing those things. So, you know, so back to this. So why so it yes, token Macs have been have achieved the highest and magnetic fusion by far like the the best amounts of these of these conditions that I talked about. And in fact, pushed right up to the point where they were near QP of one. They just didn't quite get over one. So, you actually just linger on the on the collaboration across different nations just maybe looking at the philosophical aspect of this. Even in the cold war, there's something hopeful to me besides the energy that these giant international projects are a really powerful way to ease some of the geopolitical tension even military conflict across nations. There's a war in Ukraine and Russia. There's a brewing tension and conflict with China. Just the world is still seeking military conflict cold or hot. What can you say about sort of the lessons of the 20th century in these giant projects in their ability to ease some of this tension? So it's it's it's a great question. So, as I said, there was a reason because it was so hard that was one of the reasons they declassified it. And actually they started working together in some sense on it as well too. And I think it was really there was you know, a you're a you're a realistic or altruistic aspect to this. It's like this is something that could change, you know, the future of humanity and its nature and its relationship with energy is in this something that we should work on together. Right. And and and that went along in those ones. And in particularly that any kind of place where you can actually have an open exchange of of of people who are sort of at the intellectual frontiers of your society. This is a good thing. Right. Of being able to collaborate. I've had the I mean I've had had had an amazing you know career. I've worked with people from it's like hard to throw a dart at a country and on the map and not hit a country of people that I've been able to work with. How amazing is that? And and even just getting small numbers of people to bridge the cultural and societal, you know, divides is a very important thing even when it's a very teeny fraction of the overall populations. It can be held up as an example of that. But it's interesting that if you look at then that continued collaboration which continues to this day is that it was this actually played a major role in fact in east west relations or like so Soviet west relations is that back in the the Reagan Gorbachev days which of course were interesting in themselves of all kinds of changes happening you know and both sides right. And but still like a desire to you know push down the stockpile of nuclear weapons and all that within that context there was very fairly significant historic event that at one of the the Reagan Gorbachev summits is that they had really they didn't get there like they couldn't figure out how to bargain to the point of the some some part of the treaty anymore the details of anymore. But they needed some kind of a symbol almost to say but we're still going to keep working you know towards something that's important for all of us. What did they pick a fusion project. And that was in the mid 1980s and actually then after so they basically signed an agreement that they would move forward to like literally collaborate on on a project whose idea would be to show large net energy gain infusions commercial viability and work together on that. And very soon after that Japan joined as did the European Union. And now that project it evolved over a long period of time and had some interesting political ramifications to it. But in the end this actually also had South Korea, India and China join as well too. So you're talking about make major a major fraction of and now Russian of course is at the sort of union. And actually that coalition is holding together despite the obvious political you know turmoil that's going around on all those things. And that's a project called ETER which is in under construction in the South of France right now. Can you actually look at it before we turn the giant magnet and maybe even talk about spark and stuff going though all amazing stuff going on at MIT. What is eater? What is this international nuclear fusion mega project being built in the South of France? So it's scientific purpose is a worthy one that it's essentially an any fusion device. The thing that you want to see is more and more relative amounts of self heating. And this is something that had not been seen. Although although we have made fusion reactions and we'd seen small amounts of the self heating, we never got to it. This actually goes to this QP business. Okay. The goal of ETER in the shifted around a little bit historically but very you know fairly quickly became we want to get to a large amount of self heating. So this is why it has a it's primary feature is to get to QP of around 10. And through this, this is a way to study this plasma that has more higher levels of self determination around on it. But it also has another feature which was let's produce fusion power at a you know relevant scale. And and actually they're linked together which actually makes sense. You think about is that because the fusion power is the heating source itself, this means that they're linked together. And so ETER makes is projected to make about 500 million watts of fusion power. So this is a significant amount. Like this is what you would use you know for powering cities. So it's not just the research that they're really it is the development of really trying to choose scale here. So self heating and scale. Yeah. Yes. So this this meant then too is the development of an industrial base that can actually produce the technologies like the electromagnets and so forth. And to do it with it is a tokamak it is it is one of these yes. But very interesting it also revealed limitations of this as well to what well it is it's interesting is that it is clearly a it on paper and in fact in in practice as well to the world. The you know and very different political systems and you caught you consider at least geopolitical or economic rivals or whatever you want to use it like working towards a common cause and one that we all think is worthy is is very like okay that's very satisfying. But it's also interesting to see the limitations of this it's because well you've got seven you know chefs in the kitchen. So what is this what is this meant in terms of the speed of capability to to govern it and so forth. It's just been a challenge honestly around this and this is I mean it's very hard technically what's what's occurring. But when you also introduce such levels of mean this isn't just me saying it there's like geo-overports from the US government and so forth. This is it's hard to like steer all this around. And what that's tended to do is make it it's not the fastest decision making process. You know my own personal tool it was it was it was interesting because you asked me you said about the magnet and common fusion systems. It was I worked most of my career on eater because when I came into the field in the early 1990s when I completed my PhD and started to work this was one of the most like you can't imagine being more excited about something like we're going to change the world with this project we're going to do these things. And we just like port like an entire generation and afterwards well to just poured their imagination and the creativity about making this thing work very good. But also at some point though when when it got to being another five years of delay or a decade of delay you start asking yourself well is this what I want to do right am I going to wait for this. So it was a part of me starting to ask questions with my students. I was like is there another way that we can get to this extremely worthwhile goal but maybe it's not that maybe it's not that pathway and the other part that was clearly frustrating to me because I I'm an advocate of fusion you asked me about was I you know I was like was laser fusion or inertial or inertial fusion or magnetic fusion I just want fusion energy okay because I think it's so important to the world is that but the other thing if that's the case then why do we have only one attempt at it on the entire planet which was eater it's like that makes no sense to me right we should have multiple attempts at this with different levels of whatever you want to think about a technical schedule, scientific risk which are incorporating them and that's going to give us a better chance of actually getting to the goal line. With that spirit you're leading MIT's effort to design a compact high field dt burning talkamack. How does it work? What is it? What's the motivation? What's the design? What are the ideas behind it? At its heart it's exactly the same concept as eater it's basically a configuration of electromagnets it's arranged in the shape of a donut and within that we will do the same thing that happens in all the other token max and including an eater make it into a plasma you heat it up it gets to about 100 million degrees the differentiator in spark is that we use the actual deuterium-tridium fuel and because of the access to very high magnetic fields it's in a very compact space it's very very small what do I mean by small so it's 40 times smaller in volume than eater but it uses exactly the same physical principles so this comes from the high magnetic field. So in the end why does this matter? What it does is it does those things and it should get to the point where it's producing over 100 million watts of fusion power but remember it's 40 times smaller so eater is 500 megawatts technically our design is around 150 megawatts it's only about a factor of three difference 40 times smaller and we see QP large order of 10 or something like this at that at that at that state is very important scientifically because this is basically matches what eater is looking to do the plasma is dominated by its own heating it's very very important and it does that for about 10 seconds and the reason it's for 10 seconds is that in terms of that it's technically allows everything to settle in terms of the fusion in the plasma equilibrium everything is nice and settled so you know you have seen the physical state at which you would expect a power plant to operate basically for magnetic fusion like wow but it's more than that and it's more than that it's because about who's building it and why and how it's being financed so that scientific pathway was made possible by the fact that we had access to a next generation of magnet technology so to explain this real quick why do we call it you you said it in the words a superconducting magnet what does this mean superconducting magnet means that the materials which are in the electromagnet have no electrical resistance therefore when the electric current is put into it the current goes around unimpeded so it could basically keep going around and around you know technically for infinity and what that means are for eternity and what that means is that when you energize these large electromagnets they're using basically zero electrical power to maintain them whereas if you would do this in a normal wire like copper you basically make an enormous toaster oven that's consuming enormous amounts of power and getting hot which is the problem that was the technical breakthrough that was realized by myself and at the time my students and postdocs and colleagues at MIT was that we saw the advent of this new superconducting material which would allow us to access much higher magnetic fields is basically a next generation of the technology and it was quite disruptive to fusion that namely what it would allow that if we could if we could get to this point where we can make the round 20 Tesla we knew by the rules of tokamaks that this is going to be is going to allow us to vastly shrink like the sizes of these devices so it wouldn't take although it's a worthy goal it wouldn't take a seven nation international you know treaty basically to build it you could build it with a company in a university so same kind of design but not using the superconducting magnets yeah and if in fact if you look at it's like it's if you just expand the size of it they're like they look almost identical to each other because it's based on the and actually that comes for reason by the way is that it also looks like a bigger version of the tokamak that we ran at MIT for 20 years where we established the scientific benefits in fact of these higher magnetic fields so that's the pathway that runs so we say so what does this mean the context is different because it was made because it's primarily being made by a private sector company spun out of MIT because the way that it raised money and the purpose of the entity which is there is to make commercial fusion power plants not just to make a scientific experiment this is actually why we have this why we have a partnership right is that our purpose at MIT is not to commercialize directly but boy do we want to advance the technology in the science that comes along this and that's the reason we're sort of doing it together so it's MIT and Commonwealth fusion systems yeah so what's what's interesting to say about financing and this seems like from a scientific perspective maybe not an interesting topic but it's perhaps an extremely interesting topic I mean you can just look at the test between SpaceX and NASA for example yes it's just clear that there is different mechanisms that actually significantly accelerate the development of science and engineering it's great that you brought that up we use several historic analogues and one of them is around SpaceX which is an appropriate one because space you know putting things into orbit has a just a has a minimum size to it and integrated technological complexity and budget and things like this so you know our point when we were like talking about starting like a fusion commercialization you know company people look at you like isn't this still really just a science experiment you know but are one of the things that we pointed to was SpaceX to say well tell me like 25 years ago how many people would have voted that you know the leading entity on the planet to put things into orbit so private company people to thought you were not so right it's like and what is interesting about SpaceX is that it proved it's more than actually just financing it's really the purpose of the organization so the purpose of a gut and I'm not against public finance anything like that but the purpose of a public entity like NASA correctly you know speaks to the political because the cost comes from the political you know assembly that is there and I guess from off eventually as well too but its purpose wasn't about like making a commercial product it's about fundamental discovery and so which is all which is all really great it's like why did why did SpaceX it's interesting the why did SpaceX succeed so well is because the idea was it's like the the focus that comes in the idea that you're going to relentlessly like reduce cost and increase efficiency is a drive that comes from the commercial aspect of it right and this also then changes the people in the teams which are doing as well too and in fact trickles throughout the whole thing because the purpose isn't while you're while you're advancing things like it's really good that we can put things in orbit a lot less more cheaply like an advanced science which is an interesting synergy right it's the same thing that that we think is going to happen in fusion that namely these is a bootstrap effect that actually that when you start to push yourself to think about near term commercialization it like that allows the science to get in hand faster which then allows the commercialization to go faster and to do that and up we go by the way we've seen this also in another again it's a you have to watch out with with analogies because they can go so far but like biotech is another one like you look at the human genome project which was it's sort of like it's to me that's like like mapping the human genome is like like that we can make net energy from fusion like it's one of those like in your drawer that you go this is a significant achievement by humanity right in the century and there's a human genome project fully government funded it's going to take 20 25 years because we basically know the technology we're just going to be really diligent keep going to do do do do do do do do do and then all of a sudden what comes along disruptive technology right you can sequence you know shock on sequencing and and computer you know recognition patterns and basically oh I can do this a hundred times faster like wow right so so that's really them you know to me that the story about why we start at what we launch common fusion systems was more than just about another source of funding which it is a different source of funding it's also a different purpose which is very important but there's also something about mechanism that creates culture so giving power to like a young student ambitious student to have a tremendous impact on the progress of nuclear fusion creates a culture that actually makes progress more aggressively like like you said when seven nations collaborate it gives more incentive to the bureaucracy to slow things down to kind of have let's have first have a discussion and certainly don't give voice to the young ambitious minds that are really pushing stuff forward yeah and there's something about like the private sector that rewards encourages inspires young minds to say in the most beautiful ways F you to the boss yeah just like make it faster make it simpler make it better will make it cheaper yeah and sometimes that brashness doesn't bear out you know that's an aspect that you just take a different risk profile is well too but you're right it's this you know of them I mean it was interesting our our own trajectory at the at the fusion center was like we were pushed into this place by necessity as well too because I told you we have and we had operated for a long time a tokamak at at on the MIT campus achieve these world records like a hundred million degree plasma itself like wow this is fantastic but you know somewhat ironically I have to say is that it was like oh but we're not this isn't the future of fusion anymore like we're not we're just going to stop with small projects because it's too small right so we should need we need to really move on to these much bigger projects because that's really the future of fusion and so it was defunded and this basically put at risk like like we were going to essentially lose MIT in the ecosystem really a fusion both from the research but also clearly important from the educational part of it so we you know we push back against this we got a lifeline we're able to go and it was in this it was in this time scale that we basically came up with this idea it's like we do this and in the end it was all of those the people who were in the sea level of the company were all literally students who got caught in that they were PhD students so you talk about enabling another generation it's like yeah there you go right so spark gave a lifeline a lifeline if you'll to the the future of MIT they continue but it's way more than that it was it wasn't just about like surviving for the sake of surviving it was like in the end for me it became like this I remember the moment you talk about these moments as a scientist and we were just like we were working so hard about finger like this is really with this really work like in this it's complex like does the magnet work does the interaction with the plasma work does all these things work and it was just a grind push push push push and I remember the moment because I was sitting in my office in in Brookline and and there was just like I read like and I was in I don't know whatever the 20 or 40th slide or something into it and it was sort of that moment like it just came together and I like I got I couldn't even sit down because all I was just like my wife was like why are you walking around the apartment like this like I just couldn't she I said it's going to work like it's going to work like all the time that moment of realization is like kind of amazing but it's also brings the responsibility of making it work is what you work so you mean like that magic realization that you can have this this modern magnet technology and you can actually like why do we need to work with either we can do it here yeah yeah but it's interesting that eater is that one one of one of the reasons that like that we started with a group of six of us at MIT and then it's once we got some funding through the through the establishment of the company it became a slightly larger but in the end we had a rather small team like this was like a team of you know order of like 20 to 25 people design spark and like I like about two years right how does that happen well we're clever but you have to give eater it's due here as well to that again this is an aspect always of the bootstrap up like I go back to the human genome project so modern day genomics would not be possible without the underlying basis that came from setting that up it had to be there it had to be curiosity driven public program is the same with eater but we because we had the tools that were there to understand eater we also have the tools to understand spark so we re parlayed those in an extremely powerful way to be able to tell us about what was going to happen so these things are never simple right it's like people look at this go all this means we should like should we really have a public base program about fusion or should we have it all in the private it's like no the answer is neither way because in all these complex analogies you have to keep pushing on all the fronts to actually get it there so you know the natural question people here break through with the with the inertial confinement with the magnetic confinement is so when will we have commercial yeah reactious power plants that are actually producing a electricity what's your sense looking out into the future what when do you think you can envision a future where we have actual electricity coming from the ocean partly driven by us but in other places as well too so there's the advent what's you know what's so different now than three or four years ago like we launched around four years ago what's so different now is is the advent of a very nascent but seemingly robust like commercial fusion endeavor so it's not just com well fusion systems there's something like twenty plus you know companies it is a sector now there's a sector they actually they actually have something called the fusion industry association which viewers want to go see this this describes the different and they've got this plethora of approaches like I haven't even described all the approaches I've basically described the mainline approaches you know and they're all at varying degrees of technical and scientific maturity with very huge different you know balances between them but what they share is that because they're going out and finding getting funding in the sector is that their stated goals are about getting fusion into place so that both it meets the investors demands which are interesting right in the time skills of that but also it's like well there's going to in what why it's because it's easy there's going to there's this enormous push driver about getting carbon free energy sources out into the market and whoever is going to be both very it's going to be very important geopolitically but also economically as well too so it's a different kind of a bit bad I guess or a different kind of gamble that you're taking with fusion but it's so disruptive that it's like there's there's essentially a class of investors and teams that are ready to go after it as well too so what do they share in this they typically share getting after fusion on a time scale so that could it have any relevance towards climate change but battling climate change and I would say this is difficult but it's fairly easy because it's math so what you do is you actually go to some target like 2050 or 2060 some like this and say I want to be blank percent of the world's market of electricity or something like that and we know historically what it takes to evolve and distribute these kinds of technologies because every technology takes some period of time and it's basically everything follows a logarithmic exponential type curve it's a straight line a log plot and like you look at wind solar, fission they all follow the same thing so it's easy you take that curve and you go that's slope and you work backwards and you go if you don't start in the early 2030s it's not going to have a significant impact by that time so all of them share this idea and in fact it's not just the companies now the US federal government has a program that was started last year that said we should be looking to try to get like the first and what I mean by like what does it mean to start that you've got something that's putting electricity on the grid, a pilot and if that can get started like in the early 2030s you know the idea of ramping it up you know makes sense, it's math so that's the ambition then the question is actually this is different because the government program and they vary around in this so for example the United Kingdom's government idea was to get the first one on by 2040 and China has ambitions probably middle 2030s or maybe a little bit later and Europe, you know, continental Europe is a little bit I'm not exactly sure where it is but it's like later it's like 2050 or 2060 because mostly linked to the eater timeline as well too the fusion companies which makes sense is like of course they've got the most aggressive timelines it's like we're going to map the human genome faster as well too right so it's interesting about where we are and I think you know my we're not all the way there but my intuition tells me we're probably going to have a couple of cracks at it actually on that timeline so this is where we have to be careful though you say commercial fusion you know what does that mean commercial fusion to me means that you actually have a no-one quantity about what it costs what it costs to build and what it costs to operate reliability of putting energy on the grid that's commercial fusion so it turns out that that's not necessarily exactly the first fusion devices that put electricity on the grid because you got it there's a learning curve to get like better and better at it but that's probably I would suspect the biggest hurdle is to get to the first one the work I've done the work I continue to do with autonomous vehicles and semi-autonomous vehicles there's an interesting parallel there where a bunch of companies announced a deadline for themselves in 2021-22 and only a small subset of those companies have actually really pushed that forward there's Google with Waymo or alphabet rather and then there's Tesla with semi-autonomous driving in their auto-pilot full-cell driving mode and those are different approaches so Tesla is achieving much higher scale but the quality of the drive is semi-autonomous I don't know if there's a metaphor or an analogy here and then there's Waymo that's focusing on very specific cities but achieving real full autonomy with actual passengers but the scale is much smaller so I wonder like just like you said these kinds of similar kind of really pushes. Absolutely. So actually this is what I have encouraged about fusion. Fusion is still hard because the science underneath it of achieving the right conditions for the plasma basically is a yardstick that you have to put up against all of them what's encouraging that I see in this and it's actually what happens when you sort of let loose the creativity of this is maybe I'll go back to first principles. So fusion is also fairly strange. So if you think about building a coal burning wood and coal and gas is actually not that much different from each other because they're kind of about the same physical conditions and you get the fuel and you light into the fusion is very... remember I told you that there's this condition of the temperature which is kind of universal but if you take the density of the fuel between magnetic fusion and inertial fusion they're different by about a factor of 10 billion. So this and the density of fuel really matters. That actually so does the... this means energy confinement time is also different by a factor of 10 billion as well too. This is the product of those two. So one's really dense and short and the other one's really long lived and actually under dense as well too. So what that means is that the way to the way to get the underlying physical state is so different among these different approaches what it lends itself to is does this mean that eventual commercial products will actually fill different needs in the energy system. So it sort of goes to your comment about... I have to suspect this. It's because anything that is high-tech and is like an really important thing in our economy tends to never find its way as one only one manifestation. Like look at transportation as well too. We have scooters, vespas, you know, overland trucks, cars, electric cars. Of course we have these because they meet different demands in it. So what's interesting, you know, that I find fascinating now is that we have infusion it's going to look like that. That probably there's... while the near-term focuses on electricity production there might even be different kinds of markets that actually make sense. In other words, it comes to trade-offs because we haven't really talked about the engineering yet and the engineering really matters like to the operation of the device. And so it could be that, you know, I suspect what we'll end up with is several different configurations which have different features which are trade-offs basically in the energy market. What do you see as the major engineering or general hurdles that are in the way? Yeah. So the first one is just the cost of building a single unit. So fusion has... and it's actually interesting you talked about the different models that you have. So fusion has one of its interesting limitations is that it's very hard. It almost at some point becomes physically impossible to actually make small power units. Like a kilowatt, a thousand watts, you know, which is like a personal home, like, you know, this is about a thousand. What are your personal use of electricity? It's about like a thousand watts. This is basically impossible. For a single unit to do this. So like you're not going to have a fusion power plant like is your furnace or your electric heater in your home. And the reason for this comes from the fact that fusion relies on it's not just that it's very hot. It says that the fusion power is the heating source to keep it hot. So if you go too small, it basically just cannot keep it hot. So it's interesting is that this... So this is one of the hard parts. So this means that the individual units, you know, it varies from concept to concept. But the National Academy's report that came out last year, sort of put the benchmark as being, like probably the minimum size looks like around 50%. So maybe the minimum size looks like around 50 million watts of electricity, which is like enough for like a meat, like a small to, you know, mid-sized city actually. So that is... So that's sort of like a scale challenge. And in fact, it's one of the reasons why in Commonwealth and in other private sector ones, they try to push this down actually of trying to get to these smaller units, just because it reduces the cost of it. So probably, obviously it's an obvious one, like achieving the fusion state itself, and high gain is a hard one. What we already talked about. What kind of hurdle, what kind of challenge is that? Well, that's achieving the right temperature, density, and energy confinement time in the fuel itself, in the plasma itself. And so some of the configurations which are being chosen are actually quite a waste of go, back to seeing those, but what their consideration is, oh yes, but by our particular configuration, the engineering simplicity confers an economic advantage, even if we're behind in sort of a science sense, which is fine. There's also what you get when you get an explosion in the private sector. You basically are distributing risks in different ways, right, in which sense. All of that good, so what I would say is that the next hurdle to really overcome is about making that electricity. So we need to see a unit or several units, like put using fusion in some way to put a meaningful amount of energy on the grid, because this starts giving us real answers as to what this is going to look like. The full end to end thing. So commonwealth school is that, I'll, I'll, this comment to commonwealth, because I'll take some, you know, I guess some credit for this, is that the origins of commonwealth were in fact in examining that. Like we could see this new technology coming forward, this new superconducting material, and the origins of our thought process were really around designing effectively the pilot plant or the commercial unit. It's called ARC, which is actually the step forward after spark. And that was the origins of it. So all the things that were other parts of the plant like spark and the magnet were actually all informed totally by building something that's going to put net electricity on the grid. And the timing of that, we still hope is actually the early 2030s. So spark is the design of the talkamack and ARC is the actual full end thing. It's like a thing that actually puts an energy on the grid. So spark is named, you know, intentionally that it's like, it's on for a short period of time. And it doesn't have a, it has, yeah, yeah, you know, it's the spark of the fusion, you know, revolution or something like that. I guess we could call it. Yeah, so those are, so those are sort of the programmatic challenges of doing that. And, you know, it's interesting. You asked about, you talked about SpaceX. So what has evolved even in the last year or so was in fact in March of 2022, the White House announced that it was going to start a program that kind of looks like a SpaceX analogy that namely, wow, we've got these things in the private sector. We should leverage the private sector and the advantages of what they obtain. But also with the things like this is going to be hard and it's going to take quite a bit of financing. So why don't we set up a program where we don't really get in the way of the private sector fusion companies, but we help them finance these difficult things, which is how SpaceX basically became successful through the COTS program. Fantastic. Right. And that's evolving as well too. So like the fusion ecosystem is almost unrecognizable from where it was like five years ago. Around those things. How important is that for the heads of the companies that are working on nuclear fusion to have a Twitter account? And to be quite, you said you don't use Twitter. I don't use that much. I mean, there is some element to, and I don't think this should be discounted. Whatever you think about, figures like Jeff Bezos with Blorgin or Elon Musk with SpaceX. There is a science communication to put it in nice terms. That's kind of required to really educate the public and get everybody excited and sell the sexiness of it. I mean, just even the videos of SpaceX, just being able to kind of get everybody excited about going out to space once again. I mean, there's all kinds of different ways of doing that. But I guess those companies do well, you know, is to advertise themselves to really sell themselves. It is. Yeah. Well, actually, I feel like one of the reasons I'm on this podcast. So I don't have an official role in the company. And one of the reasons for this was also that it's interesting because when you come from like you're running a company, it makes sense that they're promoting their own product and their own vision, which is totally makes sense. But there's also a very important role for academics who have knowledge about what's going on. But are sufficiently distant from it that they're not fully only self-motivated just by their own projects or so worth. And for me, this is, I mean, we see particularly the problems of the distrust and technology. And then honestly in the scientific community as well too, it will be that one of the greatest tragedies, I would say, that if we go through all of this and almost pull off what looks like a miracle like technological and scientific wise, which is to make a fusion power plant and then nobody wants to use it because they feel that they don't trust the people who are doing it or the technology. So we have to get so far out ahead of this. So I give lots of public lectures or things like this of accessing a larger range of people. We're not trying to hide anything. You can come and see, you know, come do tours of our laboratory. In fact, I want to set those up virtually as well too. You might look at our plasasized and fusion center YouTube channel. So we are reaching out through those meetings. And it's really important that we do those things. But it's also been also then realizing setting up the realistic expectations of what we need to do. You know, we're not there. Like we don't have commercial fusion devices yet. And you ask like, what are the challenges? I'm not going to get into any deep technical, you know, questions of what the challenges are. But it is the pathway, not just to make fusion work technically, but to make it economically competitive and viable. So it was actually used out in the private sector is a non trivial task. And it's because of the newness of it. Like we're simultaneously trying to evolve the technology and make it economically viable at the same time. Those are two difficult couple tasks. So my own my own research and my own drive right now is at fantastic, combo fusion systems is set up. We have a commercialization unit of that particular kind, which is going to drive forward a token back. In fact, I was just there's discussions, there's dialogues going on around the world with other kinds of ones like stellarators and so which prefer different kinds of challenges and economic advantages. But what we have to I know what we have to have what we have to have is a new generation of integrated scientists, technologists and engineers that understand like how what needs to get done to get all the way to the goal line. Because we don't we don't have them now. Like a multi disciplinarian. Yeah, exactly. What's required. I mean, you you're talking about. You said that fusion is quote the most multi disciplinary field you can imagine. Yes. Yeah. Why why is that what are the? Yeah, well, because because most of our discussion that we've had so far is really like a physics discussion really. So what don't don't neglect physics is at the for origin of this. But I've already we touched on plasma physics and nuclear physics, which are basically two, you know, somewhat overlap but independent disciplines. Then it when it comes to the engineering, it's almost everything. So so why is this won't like built let's build an electromagnetic together. Okay. What is this going to take is going to take space of electrical engineering, computer and so you understand what how goes together what happens. Computational engineering to model this very complex integrated thing materials engineering because it's this you're pushing materials to their limit with respect to stress and so forth. It takes cryogenic engineering, which is sort of a sub discipline, but cooling things the extremely low temperatures. Probably some kind of chemistry thing in there too. Well, actually, yeah, the which tends to show up in the materials. And that's just one of the sub components of it like almost everything gets hit in this right. So you're and you're also in a very integrated environment because in the end all these things, while you isolate them from each other in a physics sense and an engineering sense, you have they all have to work like seamlessly together. So it's one of those I mean, I mean, I've in my own career, I've basically done atomic physics spectroscopy, you know, plasma physics, I and etching. So this includes material science, something called MHD even magneto hydrodynamics is that. And now all the way through it like I'm not even sure how many different careers I've had it's also by the way, this is also a recruiting stage for like young scientists thinking to come in like my comment to scientists, if you're bored infusion, you're not paying attention because there's always something interesting to go and do. So that's a really important part of what we're doing, which isn't new infusion actually in fact is in the roots of what we've done at MIT, but holy cow like the proximity of possibility of commercial fusion is the new thing. So my catchphrases like maybe wonder like why weren't we doing all these things like why weren't we pushing towards economic fusion and new materials and new methods of heat extraction and so far because everybody knew fusion was 40 years away. And now it's four years away. There is a history like you said 40 30 whatever the kind of old joke. There's a history of fusion projects that you know characterized by cost over on the delays. How do you avoid this? How do you minimize the chance of this? You have to build great teams is one of them. It tends to be that the smaller the there's sort of an I'm not an expert in this but you can see this enough integrated equations. Yeah, well, there's almost and there's I've seen this from enough teams like I've seen also the futility of lone genius is trying to solve everything by themselves. But also organizations that have 10,000 people in them is just not doesn't lend itself at all to innovation so like one of our original sponsors and a good friend Vinod Coast. I don't know if you ever talked to Vinod Coast like he's a venture guy. He's got fantastic ideas about like the right sizes of teams and things that really innovate right and and there is an optimum place in there is that you get enough cross discipline and ideas but it doesn't become so overly bureaucratic that you can't execute on it. So so one of the ways and this was one of the challenges of fusion is that everything was leading towards like I have to have like enormously large like teams just to execute because of the scale of the project. The fact that now through technology through both technology and the argue financing innovation we're driving to the point where it's smaller focus teams about doing those things. So that's one way to make it faster the other way to make it faster is modularize the problem or or parse the problem. So this is the other difficulty in fusion is that you know you tend to look at this. It's like oh it's really just about making the plasma into this state you know here that you get this energy game. No because in the end if you can parse out the different problems of making that and then make it as separate as possible from extracting the energy and then converting it into electricity. The more separate those are the better they are because you get parallel pass that basically mitigate risk. This is not new in fusion by the way and this is the way that we attack most complex technological. Integrated technological challenges. Have you been chance seen some of the application of artificial intelligence reinforcement learning a deep mind has a nice paper has a nice effort on basically using reinforcement learning for learn control algorithm for controlling nuclear fusion. Do you find those kinds of I guess you throw them under the umbrella of computational modeling. Do you find those interesting promising directions they're all they're all interesting so when people you know. I'll pull back maybe a natural question is like why is it different in fusion like there's a long history diffusion right it was going on for like I told you like stories from the late 1960s like what's different now right. So I think from the from the technology point of view there's two massive things which are different so one of them you know I'll be progril it's the advent of this new superconducting materials because the most mature ways that we understand about how we're going to get the fusion power plants are magnetic fusion and by the fact that you've got access to something which like changes the economic equation by an over an order magnitude is just a totally. You know and that that wasn't that long ago is only September of 2021 that we actually demonstrated the technology that changes the prospects there and the other one is computing and it's across the whole spectrum it's not just in control of the fusion device it's actually in the we actually use machine learning and things like this in the design of the magnet itself it's an incredibly complex design space so you use those tools. The simulation of the plasma itself is actually we're at a totally different place than we were because of those things so those are the two big drivers that I see actually that make it different and actually and it's interesting both those things self enforce about what you asked about before like how do you avoid delays and as well it's by having smaller teams that can actually execute on those but now you can do this because. The new magnets make the devices all smaller and computing means your human effectiveness about exploring the optimization space is way better like they're all interlinked to each plus the modulation like you said and say everything just kind of works together to make small teams more effective and faster and it's actually and it's through that learned experience I mean you know of the things that I'm the most proud of about what came out in fact the origins of thinking about how we would use the the high temperature superconducting. Magnets came out of my design class at MIT and in the design class like one of the features that I kept I mean it was interesting actually learned I really learned along with the students about this but like this insistence on the features like we can't have so many coupled integrated hard technology developments like we have to separate these somehow so we worked and worked and worked at this and in fact that that's what really in my opinion the greatest advantage of the art design and want to come you know and I'm going to do that. And you know and and built into the common well fusion system idea is like to parse out the problems like how can we attack these in parallel yeah and so it really comes to we talked about philosophy it's like a design philosophy like how do you attack these these kinds of problems and you do it like that and also like you mentioned offline that there's a power to you know as part of a class to design a nuclear fusion well it's a power plan well then it is and I and it's it's hard to imagine a more powerful force than like 15 MIT PhD students like working together towards solving a problem and what I always in fact we just we recently just taught the the most recent you know I say I teach it I mean I I guided actually the most recent version of this where they actually designed you know based on this national academies report they actually designed like the pilot pilot like the pilot plant that has basis and similarities to what we had done before but you know I kept wanting to like push the envelope and where they are it's like the creativity and the and the energy that they bring to these things is kind of like it keeps me going like I'm not going to retire anytime soon when I keep seeing that kind of dedication and it's wonderful around on that and it almost not to overuse a or to paraphrase something right which is that you know the the famous quote by Margaret me you know never doubt that a small group of dedicated you know persons will change the world indeed it's the only thing that ever has I mean that's a such a powerful and inspiring thing for an individual to find the right team be part of that and then you yourself your passion your efforts could actually make a big change yeah big impact I gotta ask you so it's it's a whole nother different conversation I'm sure to have but nuclear power is a currently stands so using a vision is extremely safe despite public perception it is the safest actually so that's a whole not a conversation but almost like a human bureaucratic physics engineering question of what lessons do you draw from the catastrophic events where they the the popularly so Chernobyl and 3 mile Alan Chernobyl what lessons do you draw she's three by law and was not really a disaster nothing escaped from the thing but Chernobyl and Fukushima were have been you know had obvious consequences in the populations in the living nearby what lesson do you draw from those you can carry forward to fusion now I know there's you can say that you're not going to have the same kind of issues but it's possible that the same folks also said they're not going to be have those same kind of issues yeah we humans the human factor we haven't talked about that one quite as much but it's still there so to be clear it's so fusion has the intrinsic safety with respect to it can't run away those are physics basis technology and engineering basis of running a complex again anything that makes large amounts of power and heats things up is got intrinsic safety and and by the fact that we actually produce very energetic particles this doesn't mean that there's no radiation involved in I I nice you radiation to be more accurate in fusion it's just that it's in a very different order of magnitude basically so what are the different things in fusion so so one of them is make sure that you're looking at aspects of the holistic environmental and societal footprint that the technology will have as technologists we tend not to focus on these in particularly in early stages of development like we just want something that works right we come with just something that works but doesn't actually satisfy the societal demands for safety and for disposing I mean we will have materials that we have to dispose of out of fusion just this is but there's technological questions about what that looks like so will this look like something that you have to put in the ground for a hundred years or five years like and the consequences of those are both economic and societal acceptance and so forth but don't bury those like put the bring these up front talk to people about them and make people realize that you're actually you know the way I would look is that you're making fusion more economically attractive by making it more societally acceptable as well too and then realize is that you know I think there's a few interesting you know that boundaries facing this so one of the speaking of boundaries that successful fusion devices I'm pretty sure will require that you don't have to have an evacuation plan for anybody who lives at the site boundary so this has this has implications for what we build from a fusion engineering point of view but has major implications for where you can site fusion devices right so in many ways it becomes more like well you know we have fences around you know industrial heat sources and things like this for reason right for personal safety it looks more like that right it's not quite as simple as that but that's what it should be like and in fact we have research projects going on right now at MIT that are like trying to push the technologies to make it more look like that I think that those are key and then in the end as I said like so Chernobyl is physically impossible actually in a fusion system from a physics perspective you can't run away like it did it Chernobyl which was basically human error that you know of letting letting the reactors like run out of control essentially human Eric can still happen you cliff with fusion basically so but in that one if human error occurs then it just stops and this is done and all of those things this is the requirement of of us as technologists and developers of this technology to not ignore that dimension in fact of the design and that's why me personally I'm actually pouring myself more and more into that area because this is going to be I actually really think it is an aspect of the economic viability of fusion because it clearly differentiates ourselves and also sets us up to be about what we want fusion to be is that again on paper fusion can supply all of our energy like all of it so this means I want it to be like like really environmentally benign but this takes engineering ingenuity basically to do that let me ask you some wild out there questions so far we need to talk in too much you know simple practical things in everyday life no only revolutionizing the entire energy infrastructure of human civilization yes but so cold fusion this idea this dream this interesting physical goals seem to be impossible but perhaps this possible do you think it is possible do you think down the line somewhere in in the far distance is possible to achieve fusion at low temperature it's very very very unlikely and this comes from so this would require a pretty fundamental shift in our understanding of physics like as we know it now and we know a heck of a lot about how nuclear reactions occur but by the way what's interesting is that there's they actually have a different name for it they call it leaner like low energy nuclear reactions but we do have low energy nuclear reactions we know these is because these come from particularly the weak interaction the weak force nuclear force and so it's at this point you know as a scientist you always keep yourself open because but you also demand proof and that's the thing it almost requires a breakthrough on the theoretical physics side so something some deeper understanding about quantum mechanics so the quantum tunneling some some weird yeah and and people have looked at that but even like something like quantum tunneling has a limit as to what it can actually do so there are people who are genuine you know that really want to see it make it but you know it sort of goes to the extort I mean we know fusion happens at these high energies when we know this extremely accurately and I can show you a plot that shows that as you go to lower low energy it basically becomes immeasurable so if you're going down this other pathway it means there's really a very different physical mechanism involved so all I would say is that I actually poke in my head once in a while to see what's going on in that area and as scientists we should always try to make ourselves open and but in this one is like but show me something that I can measure and that is repeatable and then and then it's then it's going to take more extraordinary effort and and to date this is not met that threshold in my opinion. So even more so than just mentioning or in that question thinking about people that are claiming to have a chief co fusion I'm more thinking even about people who are studying black holes and they're basically trying to understand the function of you know theoretical physicists they're doing the long haul trying to investigate like okay what is happening to singularity what is the this kind of holographic projections on a plate this weird freaking things that are out there in the universe and like somehow accidentally they start to figure out something weird and then all of a sudden there's weirdness all over the place already yeah somehow that weirdness will yeah I think at a time scale probably of a hundred years or so that weirdness will open it just seems like nuclear fusion and black holes and all of this are two their next door neighbors a little bit too much for like you'll find something interesting tell you story about this yes okay it's a real story so there are really really clever scientists in the end of the late 1800s in the world you talk about like James clerk Maxwell and you talk about Lord Calvin and you talk about Lorenz actually who named after these other ones and you on and on and on and like Faraday and they discovered electromagnetism holy cow and it's like they figure out all these things and yet there were these weird things going on that you couldn't quite figure out it's like what the heck is going on with this right by but we teach us all the time in physics classes right so what was going on well there's just a few there's just a few kind of things things unchecked but basically we're at the end of discovery because we figured out how everything works because we've got we've got basically Newtonian mechanics and we've got Maxwell's equations which describe basically how matter gets pushed around and how electromagnetism works holy cow what a feat but there are these few nagging things like for instance there's certain kinds of rocks that for some reason like if you put a photographic played around it it like it's burned or it gets an image on it like where's the electromagnetism in that there's no electromagnetic properties of this rock oh yeah and the other thing too is that if I if I take this wonderful classical derivation of how of something that is hot about how it releases radiation everything looks fantastic perfect match oh until I get to high frequencies of the light and then it basically just the whole thing falls apart in fact it gives a physical explanation which is total nonsense it tells you that every object should basically be producing an infinite amount of heat and by the way here's the sun and we can look at the sun and we can figure out it's made out of hydrogen and lord kelvin actually made a very famous calculation who was maybe one of the founders of thermodynamics so you look at the hydrogen hydrogen has a certain energy content you know the late heat basically of hydrogen we know the mass of the sun because we knew the size of it and he conclusively proved that basically there could only the sun could only make net energy for about two or three thousand years so therefore all this nonsense about like deep reason like because clearly the sun can only last for two or three thousand years if you think about the kept in this basically the chemical energy content of hydrogen and what comes along in one decade basically one guy sitting in a postal office you know in Switzerland figures out that all these you know the Einstein of course which was like figured out all this create like took these these seemingly unconnected things and it's like boom there it is this is what it was interesting but it was like there's quantum physics like this explains this other disaster and then the other guy my hero Ernest Randefer experimentalist did the most extraordinary experiment which is like which was that okay they had these funny rocks they emitted these particles they in fact they called them alpha particles alpha just A in the alphabet right because it was the first thing that they discovered and what were they doing so they were they were taking these alpha particles and I by the way do this to all my students because it's a demonstration of what you should be as a good scientist so we took these alpha things and he used classically trained physicist knew everything about momentum scattering and so over like that and he took this and these alpha which clearly were some kind of energy but they couldn't quite figure out what is so let's try to figure that will actually use this to try to probe the nature matter so he took this to these alpha particles and a very very thin gold foil and so what you wanted to see was that as they were going through the way that they would scatter based on classical in fact the coulomb collision based on classical mechanics this will tell me reveal something about what the nature of the charge distribution is in matter because they didn't know like where the hell is this stuff coming from even though they solved that electromagnetic is them they didn't know like what made up charges okay very interesting on through it goes to do to do to do and so what did you set up so it turns out in the in these experiments what you did was because if these out these so called alphas which actually now we know something else as they go through they would deflect how much they deflect how strong electric field they saw so you put detectors because if you put if you put like a piece of glass in front of this what will happen is that when the alpha particle hits it literally gives a little bump a little bit of light like this it synthulates a little blue flash so he would train his students or post like whatever they heck they were at the time you have to train yourself because you have to put yourself in the dark for like hours to get your eyes adjusted and then they would start the experiment and they would sit there literally count the things and they could see this pattern developing which was revealing about what was going on but there was also another part of the experiment which was that it's like here's the alphas here's the source they're going this they could tell they were going in one direction only amazing they're going in this direction and you put all these over here because you want to see how they deflect and bend through it but you put a control in the experiment but you basically put glass glass plates back here because obviously everything should just deflect but nothing should bounce back so it's a control in the experiment but what did they see they saw things bouncing back like what the hell like that fit no model of any idea right but Rutherford like refused to like ignore what was a clear like they validated it and he sat down and based on classical physics he made the most extraordinary discovery which was the nucleus which is a very very strange discovery what what I mean by that because what he could figure out from this is that in order for these particles to bounce back and hit this plate they were hitting something that must be heavier than them and that that basically something like 99.99% of the mass of the matter that was in this gold foil was in something that contained about one trillionth of the volume of it and that's called the nucleus and until and you talk about so how revealing is this is like this totally changes your idea of the universe because the nucleus is a very unintuitive non-intuitive thing why is all the mass in something that is like zero basically it was the realization that matter is empty it's all empty space and that changes everything and it changes everything until you had that like you had steam engines by the way you had telegraph wires you had all those things but that that realization like opened up those two realization opened up everything like lasers every all these think about the modern world of what we use and that set it up so all it would point out is that there's a story already that sometimes there's these nagging things at the edge of science that you know we seem we we pat ourselves on the back and we think we got everything in our control and of course that by the way that was the origin of also that that it think about this that was 1908 it took like another 20 some years before people put that together with that's the process that's powering stars is the rearrangement of those nuclei not atoms that's why rather net Kelvin wasn't wrong he just who's working with the wrong assumptions right so fast forward to today like what would this mean right there's a couple of things like this that sit out there in physics and I'll point out one of them which is very interesting we don't know what the hell makes up 90% of the mass in the universe so that you know the search for dark matter right what is it we still haven't discovered it 90% of the mass of the universe is undetectable like what and then you know and dark energy and again black holes are the window into this well then black hole I mean sometimes black holes are way better understood in those things as well too so all it tells us is that we shouldn't have hubris about the ideas that we understand everything and when we you know who knows what of the next major intellectual insight will be about how the universe you know functions and actually I think Rutherford is the one who's attributed at least that that quote that physics is the only real science everything else is tam collecting right so there's I'm sorry he's my hero but I'll slightly disagree with that yes well no if I said tam collected that's very important too you know that you have to have humility about the kind of disciplines that make progress at every stage in science yeah physics did make a huge amount of progress in the 20th century but it's possible that other disciplines start to step in yeah but Rutherford couldn't imagine like mapping the human genome because we didn't even know about DNA or computers really or computers really probably didn't think deep about the computation here's here's a wild one what if like the next great revelation to humanity about the universe is not done by the human mind that seems increasingly likely yes yes and then you start to ask deep questions about what is the purpose of science for example if AI system will design a nuclear fusion reactor better than humans do but we don't quite understand how it works and the AI can't we know that it works we can test it very thoroughly but we don't know exactly what the control mechanisms is maybe what the chemistry of the physics is AI can't quite explain it they just can't it's it's impenetrable to our consciousness basically trying to hold it all together and then and then okay so now we're living in that world where many of the biggest discoveries are made by AI systems yeah if we weren't going big I say you know it's again a little point out like when my when my godmother was born like we none of this was in front of us right it's like we live in an amazing time it's like right like my grandfather you know plowed you know fields with a horse I get the work on designing fusion reactors yeah yeah pretty amazing time but still there's humans so we'll see we'll see if that's around a hundred years maybe a B. Oh yeah I think we're pretty I think we're pretty resilient actually yeah I know that's one lesson from life is it finds a way yeah let me ask you in a bigger question if as if those weren't big enough let's look out maybe a few hundred years maybe a few thousand years out there's something called the cartesh of scale it's a method of measuring civilizations level of technological advancement based on the amount of energy it's able to use so type one civilization and this might be given all your work is not no longer a scale that makes quite make sense but it very much focuses on the source of fusion natural source of fusion which is for us the Sun type one civilization is able to leverage sort of collect all the energy that hits earth and then type two civilizations are the ones that are able to leverage the entirety of the energy that comes from the Sun by maybe building something like a Dyson Stegers yeah yeah so when will we reach type one status as get to the level which were I think maybe a few orders of magnitude away from currently do you think about this kind of stuff because we're energy so fundamental to this like of life on earth but also the expansion of life into the universe oh yeah so one of the fun you know on the on a week and one I sat down and figured out what would it mean for interstellar travel like to have a DT fusion in fact one of the I talked about my design class one of my design classes was how you use essentially a special configuration of a fusion device for not only traveling to but colonizing Mars so because what would you do you talk about energy use being at the heart of civilizations like so what if you want to go to Mars not to just visit it but actually like leave people there and make it something happen and he's massive amounts of energy so what would that look like and it actually transforms what how you're thinking about doing that is well too oh yeah so we do all those kinds of fun and actually it was a fairly we were quasi realistic actually so do you think it'll be nuclear fusion that powers the civilization on Mars well what we considered was something so it turns out that there's thorium which is a heavy element so it's a so-called fertile element that we know what we still know fairly little about the geology of Mars and in the deep sense and we know that there's a lot of this on the surface of Mars so one of the things we considered was what would happen that it's basically a combination of a fusion device that actually makes fuel from the thorium but the underlying energy one was was fusion itself as well too so this is one of the examples of being trying to be clever around around those things or what is it you know this also means is like interstellar travel it's like oh yeah that looks almost like impossible basically from an energy balance point of you it's just like the energy required to that you have to transport to get there almost the only things that would work are DT fusion and basically annihilation it's like Star Trek right so your sense is that interstellar travel will require fusion power oh it's it's almost even impossible with fusion power actually it's so hard it's so hard because you have to carry the fuel with you and the rocket equation tells you about how much fuel you'll use to take so what you end up with is like how long does it take to go to these places and it's like staggering you know periods of time so I tend to believe that there's alien civilizations dispersed all throughout yeah but we might be totally isolated from them so you think we're not there's none in this galaxy so like I guess and the question I also have is what kind of do you think they have nuclear fusion as I guess it all the physics all the same yeah oh the physics is all the same yeah right so this is the and this is the Fermi paradox like where the hell is everybody in the universe right well there's some so you know the scariest one of those is that I would point out that there's been you know there's you know order of many tens of millions of species on the planet Earth and only one ever got to the point of sophisticated tool use that we can actually start essentially leveraging the power of what's in nature to our own will does this mean that basically this means so almost look there is almost certainly life or DNA equivalents or whatever would be somewhere I mean just because you just need a soup and you need energy and you get organics and whatever the equivalent of amino acids are and but you know most of life on Earth has been that those still amazing but it's still like this it's not very interesting are we are we actually the accident of history this is a very interesting one that is like super rare at super rare and then of course the other part is that also just the other scary part of it which if you look at the ferry paradox is good good we got to this point how long has it been in humans so humans homo sapiens has been around for whatever 100,000 years 200,000 years on our ability and that timeline to actually make an imprint on the universe like for by emitting radio waves or by modifying you know a nature in a suit is a significant way has only been for about a hundred of those hundred thousand years and you know are we is a good question so is it by definition that by the fact that when you are able to reach that level of being able to manipulate nature for example discover you know discover like vision or or or other or or burning fossil fuels and all this is that what it says oh you're doomed because by definition any species it gets the point that can modify their environment like that they'll actually push themselves you know past that's one of the most depressing scenarios that I can imagine yes so basically we're we will never line up in time because you get this little teeny window in time where civilization might occur and you can never see it because you never these these sort of like scatter like like fireflies around the galaxy and you never yeah it feels up is up is up is up is up and then explodes destroys itself because of the potential and when we say destroy ourselves all would have to do is that we basically go if humans are all left and we're still living on the planet and but all we have to do is go to the technology of like you know 1800 and we're invisible in the universe again yeah so it was when I when I listened to the I thought I wanted to talk about this as well too because it comes from well it comes from a science point you know actually of what it means but also to me it's like a another compelling driver of telling us it's like why we should try really hard not to screw this up like we're in this unique place of our ability to discover and make it and I just don't want to give up about thinking that we can get through yeah I tend to see that there is some kind of game theoretic force like with the mutual share destruction that ultimately in each human being there's a desire to survive and a willingness to cooperate yeah to have compassion for each other in order to survive and I think that I mean maybe not in humans but I can imagine a nearly infinite number of species in which that overpowers any technological investment that can destroy or rewind the species so I think if humans fail I hope they don't I see a lot of evidence for them not but it seems like somebody will survive and there you start to ask questions about why why we haven't met yet maybe just spaces large spaces it's I think in logarithms and I can't even fathom this you know space this is extraordinary right yeah it's extraordinarily large yeah I mean there's so many places on earth I just recently visited Paris for the first time yeah and there's so many other place haven't visited so many other places well I like to you know it's interesting that we have this fascination with alien life we have what is essentially alien life on earth already like you think about the organisms that develop around deep sea like thermal vents one of my favorite books of all time from Stephen J. Gould if you've never read that book it kind of blows your mind it's about the Cambrian explosion of life and it's like oh you look at these things and it's like are the chance of us existing as a species like the genetic diversity was larger back then you know this is about five about five hundred million years ago or something like that it is a mind altering trip of thinking about our place in the universe I have to say plus the mind itself yeah is a kind of alien with almost almost a mystery to ourselves we still don't understand it the very the very mechanism that helps us explore the world is still a mystery yeah so that like understanding that will also unlock quite quite possibly unlock our ability to understand the world and maybe build machines that help us understand the world build tools that I mean it already has I mean our ability to understand the world is is ridiculous almost actually and and post the bottom on take time it's almost unbelievable like wherever we've gotten all this to so what advice would you give to young folks or folks of all ages or lost in this world looking for way looking for a career they can be proud of are looking to have a life they can be proud of yeah oh the first thing I would say is don't give up I get to see multiple sides of this and you know there's there seems to be a level of despair in a young generation it's like you know it's almost like the multi-pathons get like I'm not dead that I mean like we're not there we're in a place that you know you know you know don't say the world's gonna end in 300 days or something it's not okay and when we mean by this is that we have a robust society that's figured out how to do like amazing things and we're going to keep doing amazing things but that shouldn't be complacency about what our future is and the future for their children is well too and in the end I mean it's a very it's a staggering legacy to think of what we've built up primarily by basically using carbon fuels like people almost tend to think of this as an evil thing that we've done I think it's an amazing thing that we've done but we owe it to ourselves and and to this thing that we've built and we've told what the end of the world is this nonsense what it is is it's the end of this kind of lifestyle and civilization at this scale and the ability to execute on these kinds of things that we are talking about today like we are extraordinarily privileged we're in a place where it's just it's it's almost unfathomable compared to most of the misery that humans have lived in for our history so don't give up about this okay but also roll up your sleeves and let's get going at solving and getting real solutions to the problems that are in front of us which are significant you know it's I would most of them are linked to what we use in energy but it's not just that it's it's around all the aspects of like what does it mean like what does it mean to have a distributed energy source that lift billions of people out of poverty you know particularly outside of like the Western nations right that seems to me a pretty compelling you know moral goal for all of us but particularly for this upcoming you know generation and then the other part is that is that we've got possible solutions in front of us apply your talents in a way that that that your passion about and is going to make a difference and that's only possible with optimism hope and hard work yeah what easy question certainly easier than nuclear fusion what's the meaning of life why are we here 42 is it 42 no no we already discussed about the beauty of physics that there's almost a desire to ask a why question about why the parameters have these values yeah it's very tempting yeah it's an interesting whole to go down as a scientist because we're a part of what people have a hard time people who aren't scientists have a hard time understanding what scientists do to themselves and a great scientist does a very non intuitive or non human thing what we do is we train ourselves to doubt ourselves like how like that's a great scientist we doubt everything we see we doubt everything that we think because we we try to we we basically try to turn off the belief valve right that humans just naturally have so when it comes to these things like I can I can make my own comments to this is like personally you see these things about the ratios of life and I made a comment to I said well you know I wrap my some part my brain that just goes yeah well yeah because we're the only interesting you know multiverse because by definition it has to look like this you know but there's I have to say there's other times I can say in the history of the whole of what has happened over the last 10 years there have been some pretty weird coincidences like coincidences that like you look at it and just go is that really was that really a coincidence is something like pushing us towards these things and it's a natural it's a human instinct because you know since the beginnings of humanity we've always assigned you know human motivation and and and needs to these somewhat you know empirical observations and in some sense the stories before we understand the real explanations the stories the myths service as a good approximation for the thing that we're yet to understand absolutely and in that sense you said the antithesis to sort of scientific doubt is having a faith in these stories they're almost silly when looked at from a scientific perspective but just even the feelings of it seems that love is a fundamental fabric of human condition and what the hell is that well I mean so connected to you as a physicist I go it's you know this is a repeatable thing that's due to a set of synapses that fire in a particular pattern and all this you know that's kind of like okay man what a you know what a drag that is right to think of it this way and you can have an evolutionary biology explanation but there's still a magic to it I mean I see scientists I some of my colleagues you know do this as well too like where what what a spirituality compared to science and so I my own my own feeling in this is that you know as a scientist because I've had the pleasure of being able to like both understand what my predecessors did but I also had the privilege of being able to discover things right as a scientist and and I see that and you just in just in just the range of our conversations like that is my in a weird way my it's the awe that comes from looking at that that is if you're not in awe of the universe and nature you haven't been paying attention I mean my own personal feeling is that I feel if I go if I go snorkeling on a coral reef I feel more awe than I could ever feel like in a church you kind of notice some kind of magic there there's something about the way the whole darn thing holds together that just sort of escapes your imagination and that's to me that this thing of and then we have different words we call them holistic or spiritual the way that it all hangs together in fact one of the issues you asked about like what I think about one of the craziest things that I think that how does it hold together is like our society like how does like what yeah like how are because there's no way like you just think of the United States there's three hundred and like 30 million people kind of working like this engine about going towards making all these things happen but there's like no one in charge of this really not really how the how the heck does this happen is kind of like it's so these things these are the kinds of things mathematically and organization wise that I think of just because they're sort of they're all inspiring and there's different ideas that we come up together we share them and then there's there's teams of people that share different ideas and those ideas compete like there's ideas themselves are these kinds of different organisms and ultimately somehow we build bridges and nuclear reactors and do those things well I have to give a shout out to my daughter by the way who's who's who's interested she's an applied math major and she's she's amazing at math and over the break she's shown she's doing research and it's basically about how ideas and ethos are transmitted within a society nice so she's built an applied math model is explaining like she's she was showing me on this like this simulation she goes oh look look at this and I said oh oh that's like how political parties like evolve right and even though it was a rather you know quote unquote simple math math mathematical model wasn't really it's like oh wow well maybe she has a chance to derive mathematically the the answer to the what what's the meaning of life there there we go and maybe it is indeed 42 well then it's thank you so much for just during creating tools creating systems exploring this idea that's one of the most amazing magical ideas in all of human endeavor which is nuclear fusion I mean that's so interesting that you know it's almost like my one of my lifelong goals is like to make it it's like it's not magic it's like it's boring is all that and this means we're using it everywhere right yeah yeah yeah and the magic is then built on top of it yeah well thank you for everything you do thank you for talking to me it's a huge honor this was a fascinating and amazing conversation thank you thanks for listening to this conversation with Dennis White to support this podcast please check out our sponsors in the description and now let me leave you some words from Albert Einstein there are two ways to live your life one is as though nothing is a miracle the other is though everything is a miracle thank you for listening I hope to see you next time
