 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you I also want to say that we really wanted to return to an in-person format this year with an audience of our shareholders actually here with us. And with the other members of our board, Mary Cawlin and John Frank joining us on stage. However, for health and safety reasons, we opted to err on the side of caution again this year and do another round of the online approach that we've followed over the pandemic. I recognize we're all done with COVID, but COVID doesn't quite appear done with all of us. So, before I turn things over to Becky Quick of CNBC to moderate the Q&A, we'll now proceed to the formal business of the annual meeting. Michelle Stevens, Executive Vice President and Secretary of this meeting. And Ellen Ireland is Inspector of Elections. Ellen will you please report the number of shares represented at this meeting. On December 16th, 2022, the record date fixed by the Board of Directors for determining the shareholders entitled to vote today, there were 1,377,026 shares of common stock of the corporation outstanding. I have a list of the shareholders who were of record of that date, certified by the corporation's transfer agent, Aquinity Trust Company. I also have an affidavit, certifying the completion of the mailing of the notice of this meeting, the proxy card and the 2022 annual report, along with a prepaid postage return envelope to the shareholders. The total number of shares represented by proxy at this meeting is 849,758, which is more than a majority of voting power of all outstanding common stock of the corporation, and the meeting may proceed. I will attach the affidavits to the minutes of this meeting and have a copy of the minutes of the last annual meeting. Thank you. A majority of the voting power of the corporation is represented at this meeting, and this meeting is ready for the transaction of business. As the first order of business, we will act upon the first proposal, which is the election of a Board of Directors. Four directors are to be elected at this meeting, and the following people have been nominated and received the number of votes and are thus elected to serve. Charles T. Munger, Mary Conlin, John B. Frank, Stephen Mayell Jones. The Inspector of Elections has tabulated the vote. The nominees have received the following number of votes. Charles T. Munger, 428,537. Mary Conlin, 516,625. John B. Frank, 573,419. Stephen Mayell Jones, 543,229. Since each of the nominees has received the number of votes required for his or her election as director, I declare that each has been elected director to serve for the next year, until his or her successor has been elected and qualified. The second proposal is the ratification of the selection of the independent registered public accounting firm. The audit committee and the Board of Directors have selected Baker Tilly, US, LLP for this fiscal year, and the ratification requires a vote of the majority of the shares represented at this meeting. The Inspector of Elections has tabulated the vote. 4846,716 against 1097, abstain 10945. Proposal 2 is hereby declared approved by this meeting. The third proposal concerns the advisory note on executive compensation. 2T0, RCFO and I, are the only executive officers at the company, and our compensation is described in the proxy statement. The approval requires a vote of the majority of the shares listed represented at this meeting. The Inspector of Elections has tabulated the vote and the following votes have been cast. 4608903 against 1296, abstain 3,000 and 5. Proposal 3 is hereby declared approved by this meeting. The fourth proposal concerns the advisory note on the frequency of the advisory vote on approval of executive compensation. The option of one year, two years or three years, that receives the highest number of votes cast will be the frequency for the advisory vote on executive compensation selected by the shareholders. The Inspector of Elections has tabulated the vote and the following votes have been cast. One year, 185,735, two years, 4281, 416,321. Accordingly, the stockholders have elected to hold the vote on executive compensation once every three years. Since there is not any further business to be brought before the meeting, the meeting is adjourned. We'll now transition to the Q&A once again with Becky Quick of CNBC serving as our moderator. Thank you in advance, Becky. I recognize most questions will be for Charlie, and I'll likely answer the occasional question if it's specifically about daily journal or journal technologies. Thanks, everyone, over you, Becky. Stephen, thank you very much, and welcome everyone. We've got a great number of questions that came in, and I've tried to sort through as many as I could. We'll go through as many of these questions as we can during the session, but first of all, Charlie, thank you for taking the time today. The first question that we have comes from Ryan Fussaro, and his question is related to journal technologies. He says, can you give an update on the company's new CEO, Stephen Myhill Jones? He was appointed as interim CEO nearly one year ago. How is he performing, and when will the decision be made on selecting a permanent CEO? Well, the answer is Steve chose his own titles coming in, and we'll change it whenever he wants to change it. That sounds fair enough? Yeah, no. Stephen? Yeah, I'll say that when we were in discussions a year ago, I told Charlie that I was committed to ensure the success of the business, but that I wasn't sure I would be the right long term CEO. I had incomplete information at the time, and I thought it was important that I have the optionality to hire someone better suited or promote from within if we discover that via better path. I founded and helped grow a geography software company with no background in publishing or the legal and court sector. What I can say now is that the parallels between the software company I built and journal technologies are remarkable, and I believe I can add value. I like the business and the potential for it. I expect we'll have clarity on our long term approach sometime later this year. Stephen, thank you. The second question comes in and it's in regards to capital allocation. This is from Paul in Linwood, Michigan, Paul FAM. In the past year, you've described daily journal's unique position of being a newspaper which generated enough excess cash in the past to invest in an equity portfolio. Now it's fastest growing subsidiary. Journal technologies accounts for a large part of the company's earnings. Is the technology business a natural area to allocate excess capital for the best return on equity for the company? It's not as gone off. Oh, can you hear me, Charlie? I'll keep talking. I get it here. One, two, three, four, five. I'll test this out. Maybe you guys can play me. I don't know if there's a voice of God you could play to the floor there, but I'll keep talking in the hopes that Charlie can pick up on this. And Charlie, just let me know when you do hear this. This is a question again. Sounds like they're not hearing folks. I don't know in the control room if you guys have any ideas about what's happening. Again, this is the annual meeting for the daily journal shareholders meeting. We have a lot of questions that have come in for Charlie Munger and we're going to be getting to those questions as soon as we can get the audio fixed for this. Sounds like Becky, we can hear you over someone's brought a tablet over and we can hear you over the tablet for the time being. Okay, Steven, thank you. Charlie, I'll just wrap up. I don't know where this got cut off, but this is from Paul FAM. He was asking about capital allocation and he's just wondering if the technology business is a natural area to allocate excess capital for the best return on equity for the company. How should we think about or how does the current investment manager think about investing in the equity portfolio in relation to reinvesting and growing areas of the business or share buybacks? Well, it's all very simple. We made a lot of extra money out of the publishing business and it's heyday and that was about $30 million. That was all made in the foreclosure boom. In the old days, we had information monopoly on publishing the public court's decisions daily and newsprint. We had a lot of money in the end and that came along and it destroyed our position, our circulation went way down and so forth. We've had a drastic change in good fortune in our publishing business. Steve actually ran this small software company in Canada for years and years and years which is quite similar to what general technology does. That's how we got together. The future of this business is not in the publishing side, it's on the general technology side. The good news is that we're in a huge market because all the courts of the world are in the stone age still in terms of automating with modern technology. It's a big market and the bad news is it's a long, slow slog where you deal with a lot of bureaucracies in response to RFPs, requests for proposals and it's just a very slow, difficult business. We've got a slow, difficult business of chewing our way into a huge market that's not going away with one big competitor in it. That's the future. Like many publishing companies which use newsprint, it's a miracle when any survive. If you look in the small and mid-cap edition of the Value Line books, you'll find there are two entries left. One is Gennett which used to own the monopoly newspaper and I don't know 50, 60, 100 different cities. The executive used to run around in giant airplanes and be treated like lords of England when they went to Publisher's Convention. Every newspaper publisher was a hugely powerful and these own community so they're like the lords of England all these publishers. Now, Mighty Gennett is just a pale shadow of itself. Newspapers shrunk down to a tiny little few and limited assets and so forth. There's been an unbelievable change in the technology and competitive outcomes in publishing ordinary newspapers on newsprint. By and large, the safe rule is they're all dying. There's just in different states of near death. If this place has a future, it's in the general technology side. That's a long, slow grind. The only reason we have a lot of marketable securities is we have the extra money and we've preferred the marketable securities to cash in the inflationary world. Of course, there's been a minor miracle that we have as much as we have marketable securities because our investments have done better than average. As a follow-up. So the good news is we survived so far and we got some surplus wealth and the bad news is it's a long, slow, slow ahead and the main future is in general technologies. As a follow-up to that, this is a related question. It comes from Gareth Moore in Northern Ireland and maybe you can both comment on this. He says that given the extended amount of time, that it will take to digitize the court systems because of complexity, risk and bureaucracy, and the fast-moving world of software innovation. How can shareholders be assured that journal technology solution-remain cutting edge long enough to reward shareholders? How do you think about the risk of arriving in 2030 with a great software business, which only lasts a few years until it gets disrupted by some new technology? Sure. Steve, you take that one. Of course, there are no assurances. At the same time, I do have some background dealing with this challenge because I did it for 19 years with my former company. We earned consistent and appealing profits and I expect the model is still working well for the folks who acquired us. I think the key responsibility is to get technology change working for us and our customers rather than against us. It takes advance planning and investment to engineer software with change over time and mind. It's inherently upgradable. I think this model works great if you can establish a sufficient licensey base to fund that proactive R&D to evolve products in a way that manages technology change so that... It also needs to be highly repeatable. I think all of this requires a mindset that enterprise software development is an ongoing process and not a one-time event. Let me move on to another question that comes from Gage Sanchez. Gage writes in with a question for you, Charlie. Two years ago during the 2021... Gage Sanchez writes in and says, two years ago during the 2021 annual meeting, you said Daily Journal's $350 stock was selling way above the price that you would pay for the new shares. When I write this, Daily Journal trades for $305 a share, a $420 million market cap, with a total equity portfolio value of over $310 million. Det charges covered several times over by the bank's dividends and journal technologies off financial statement value in huge market. Do you still hold the same belief? Well, he accurately stated our circumstances. We do have a lot of surplus wealth, but we needed to attack this big market. Why would they gamble on a little company with no net worth? The courts that are in the RFP contracts. So, we're using our net worth to help the business. What does that get at the question of whether you'd buy this stock at $305? Well, I don't buy it and I don't sell it. That's what the mongers have been doing. It's not a crazy valuation considering whatever else is selling for these days. So, I have no feeling that it's almost foolishly high on some crazy mystique. Somebody will go, well, it's a small birchure and it'll double like rabbits. Of course, it's not a small birchure. I'm 99 years old for Christy. That question mentioned the bank dividends that you all have at DJ Co. Another person wrote in, Norman Bergman, who asks, Charlie, Berkshire has unloaded the bank stocks. If it's not good enough for Berkshire shareholders, why is it good for us? Well, I might have a different idea as if you own securities, marketable securities, within a corporation located in California. You pay huge state and federal taxes if you sell things that are big gain. That affects our willingness to sell some of those bank stocks I bought on the bottom tech in the foreclosure crisis. It literally was the bottom tech. They're practically all gained. So, I immediately give the government 40-some percent of everything we sell out of those bank stocks. Of course, they're producing taxing. The dividends are almost tax-free. So, based on what we would get if we sold them in the return we're getting out of the dividends, it's not so bad for us. The answer is that we're not in a normal position. All factors considered we're willing to hold them for a while. There is a big disadvantage in having this huge layer of federal corporate taxes and state taxes between us and anybody we make in a state like California, which is a very business unfriendly state. It doesn't make people rushing to come out and incorporate in California. There are all kinds of states that have no income taxes and deliberately use that lure to bring in corporations. California is trying to force its wealthy people and its wealthy corporations out of the state. I must say it's working fine. They're leaving just whatever, not another. That's just the way it is. But if we succeed in the software business, it will all come good in the end. If we fail, we have a crutch under us in our real estate and our securities, which means we won't lose so much from a present market price. So, it's not a crazy thing to own that. Now, it's a market valuation, but it's not cheap either. This next question comes from Thomas Sliny, who says he's a long time Berkshire shareholder, but a pretty recent daily journal shareholder. He says, well, I know that daily journal is not a mini Berkshire. I'd have suspected that there would be some shared principles in the area of governance. Specifically, regarding the board of directors, I'm surprised to see such a small ownership. Three of the five on zero shares, a fourth owns 100 shares. Thomas says pretty unimpressive. Doesn't suggest much alignment between the board members and shareholders. He says he's not trying to be rude, but he thinks it's a fair question. Well, what happened was we used to have Gary and the Munger and we were the two biggest shareholders. And of course, we've been partners for years and years. And we took no fees, no directors fees, no expenses, no nothing. And so it was a very user friendly Berkshire type place. Well, Gary and Diane, finally at age 90, so. And so now we're down to one last survivor of the old guard. And of course, we need a certain number of new directors. And our new directors are pretty damn smart. And they're all rich, by the way. So it's still a very Berkshire like board. A smart and rich and thinking like a capitalist. We still we have that. I would add that, you know, while I don't have equity yet, I'm certainly keen to participate in future growth of the business. What should the timing of that be with someone as new as me? I think that's an interesting question. Right now, I don't think that's impacting my driver decisions. I already feel enormous skin in the game. The Mr. Munger and the board entrusted me to take the reins of the business to something I take very seriously. It's really quite interesting to have a policy. He's in one interesting activity in a very high tech field and with a lot of politics and travel and and and difficulty in it. But it's a huge, huge market. And it isn't like there are a lot of other people in it. Most of the big corporations, they would be our natural competitors are our places where they they hate our fees. And in other words, one of the reasons the business is good for us is a lot of the big companies just hate what we're doing. They want like easier money to have some standard fees and software just repeated over and over again. They're spoiled. We're willing to slug it out of the mud of all these little consulting contracts. And that makes us have have. Earlier a few competitors in the field. Charlie, since you brought up Rick Aaron. Oh, go ahead. Well, since you brought up Rick Aaron, I want to get to this question from Roni Pereira and Mumbai, who says your friend Rick Aaron passed away about a year ago. He was your longtime friend and business partner for several decades. How was he as a person as an investor and how do you remember his legacy? Well, he was just terrific as a person and an investor. And I miss him terribly. Of course. We were together for years and years and years and we were poor together. And that creates a bonding. When we met in 1961, we were both poor and struggling and young. So we had a long ride together. But all things end. That's an nature of the human condition. I want to get to a question from Lee, just the first name from this shareholder. Wrote in a question about chat GPT and artificial intelligence and the impact on daily journals, the daily journals business model and civilization at large. Says, I'm not sure if you've tried to converse with chat GPT given all the rage in the news lately. Briefly, it's artificial intelligence known as a language model. It's trained on a large data set of text like books and articles. What are your thoughts on AI's impact on daily journals business and more broadly our civilization at large? Well, I think artificial intelligence is very important. But it's also a lot of crazy hype on the subject. Artificial intelligence is not going to cure cancer. It's not going to do everything we want done. And there's a lot of nonsense in it too. So I regard as a mixed blessing all this artificial intelligence. Some people have used it in some things like insurance underwriting pretty well. But a lot of people try and use it in ordinary things like buying office buildings or something. I think that's way more, I don't like it's going to help anybody in office building. Not very much anyway. Through the lens of daily journal corporation, AI is something that we started experimenting within the summer for certain types of writing of certain types of articles. And that's something we're certainly tracking very closely. I think in terms of complex work, I think it's a long way off. But for many types of activities, especially routine things, I think it will be fascinating to see how disruptive it is over a relatively short time horizon for many types of work and activities. In this, we had our big disruption when technology kind of severely inadvertently affected our publishing business. And we have our opportunity in this new business, but it's just a long tough slog. There's no world road to success in what we're doing. Someone named Peter Furlin wrote in from Oakville, Ontario, and he had a question that he asked chat GPT to come up with a question to ask you, Charlie. And here's what chat GPT came up with. Mr. Munger, you've spoken about the importance of avoiding mental biases and decision making. In your experience, what's the most challenging bias to overcome and how do you personally guard against it? So I'd ask your answer to that question and then what you think of the question that GPT, chat GPT wrote for you. Well, what I've had a name, one factor that dominates human bad decisions, it would be what I call denial. If the truth is unpleasant enough, people kind of, their mind plays tricks on them and they think it isn't really happening. And of course that causes enormous destruction of business where people go on throwing money into the way they used to do things, even though it isn't going to work at all well in the way the world is now having changed. And if you want an example of how did denial is affecting things, take the world of investment management. How many managers are going to beat the indexes? All costs considered. I would say maybe 5%, consistently beat the average. Everybody else is living in a state of extreme denial. They're used to charging big fees and so forth for stuff that isn't doing their clients any good. It's a deep moral depravity. If some widow comes to you, if I want $1,000, you charge your 1.a year for them. And you could put her in the indexes, but you need the one point. And so people just charge some widow, you know, a considerable fee for worthless advice. And the whole profession is full of that kind of denial. It's everywhere. So I had to say, I always quote, Demos, some of these. It's a long time ago, Demos, that's more than 2,000 years ago. And he said, what people wish is what they believe. Think of how much of that goes on. And so of course it's hugely important. And you can just see it. I would say the agency costs and money management. There are just so many billions. It's uncountable. And nobody can face it. Who wants to keep your kids in school? You need the fees. You need the brokerage conditions. You need that. So you do what's good for you and bad for them. Now, I don't think Berkshire does that. And I don't think we've garnered and I did it as a daily journal. Garedin and I never took a time in salary or director's fees or anything. And if I have business, I talk out of my phone or use my car. I don't charge it as a daily journal. That's unheard of. It shouldn't be unheard of. And it goes out in Berkshire. It goes out in the daily journal. But we have an ascetic plan now in this journal technologies. And it has a million dollars for the daily journal stock. That did not come from the company issuing those shares. I gave those shares to the company to use and compensating the employees. And I learned that trick, so to speak, from the guy at BWID, which is one of the securities we hold in our securities portfolio. And BWID, at one time in its history, the founder, chairman, he didn't use the company's stock to reward the executives. He used his own stock. And it was a big reward too. Well, last year, what happened? BWID last year made more than two billion dollars after taxes in the auto business in China. Who in the hell makes two billion dollars? It was a brand new intern, really, in the auto business for all practical purposes. It's incredible what's happened. And so there is some of this old-fashioned capitalist virtue left in the daily journal. There's some left in Berkshire, have the way. And there's some left in BWID. But most places, everybody's trying to take what they need and just rationalizing whether it's deserved or not. Charlie, you bring up BWID. So I'll jump to a question from Steven Spencer, who writes in from New York, New York. He's curious why Mr. Munger prefers an investment in BWID to Tesla. Well, that's easy. Tesla, last year, reduced its prices in China twice. BWID increased its prices for direct competitors. We're so much ahead of BWID. I mean, BWID is so much ahead of Tesla in China. It's almost ridiculous. And if you look at BWID, which most people have never heard of, if you count all the manufacturing space they have in China to make cars, it would amount to a big percentage of all the other men had not one. And nobody ever heard of them a few years ago. All right, let me jump to another question. This one comes from Michael Asset, a sale, who says, this is regards to some movement at Berkshire, some sales at Berkshire's stake holdings. Did the sale of some BWID and Taiwan semi-share have anything to do with the relations between the United States and China, or was it for purely economic reasons? Well, BWID is about 50 times earnings. That is a very high price. On the other hand, they're likely to have increased their auto sales by another 50% this year. So, it's, we sold part of ours by the way years ago. Not years about a year ago, at a much higher price than that's selling for now. And, no, we're not a many Berkshire. We're not going to have a big correlation between us and what Berkshire does. And you can understand, like somebody will sell Berkshire's BWID stock at 50 times earnings. At the current price of BWID stock, a little BWID is worth more than the entire Mercedes corporation. Market capitalization. So, it's not a cheap stock. On the other hand, it's a very remarkable company. And by the way, I want to tell people the great contribution I made to the success of BWID. We got into it through Lilloo. And then it was a little company that knocked off the Japanese cell phones. And the chairman who's kind of a genius, say, I want to buy a bankrupt, a little crappy auto plant. And, going to the auto business. From dead scratch when he's making cell phones, little tiny nothing governing. And, both Lilloo and I, are talking about it. Please don't do this dumb thing. You get your head handed to you going to the auto business, little BWID and so forth. Well, last year they made more than $2 billion in the auto business, from that standing start to zero. It's unheard of. But Lilloo and I just are all the credit because we tried to get them. We tried to talk about them doing what worked so well. Which shows that there's some accident in life. Charlie, this question comes from Michael Gallagher. He says, according to company filings, it appeared that Ali Babishers were purchased with leverage. And when the stock price fell last year, he was seemingly forced to sell, he being you. Can you ask Charlie to confirm that it was bought with leverage? And if so, why would he do that? It seems to go against his philosophy. I got several questions that were similar to that. Well, yes, that's true. I operated with no leverage for long stretches of my old age. And Warren's the same way. And recently I did use a little bit of leverage here in another place because the opportunities were so ridiculously good. I thought it was desirable to do that. So you're right. It's unusual for us. But we didn't find a few things. And by the way, if you go back early in my career, I use some leverage. I sometimes ask myself a mental question, I say, what is the appropriate percentage of your net worth? You should put it in the stock if you think it's an absolute cinch. Well, if you're kind of fellow who's right, and when you think something is a cinch, the answer is 100%. But nobody teaches people to think that way in finance. But if the opportunity is great enough, the logical answer is 100%. Or maybe 200%. Somebody else wrote in and I don't have the email in front of me at the moment, but he wrote in quoting you where he said the three things that ruined people are ladies liquor and leverage. So why would you use leverage when you know that's one of the three things that can destroy somebody? Well, I used a little on my way up and so did Warren, by the way, the Buffett Partnership used leverage regularly every every year of its life. And Warren would do is he would buy a bunch of stocks and then he'd borrow and so stocks need buy into these, they used to call them a bent arbitrage, liquidations, mergers and so forth. And that was not, didn't go up and down with the market. That was so I can independent banking business. And Ben Graham's name for that, that type of investment, he called them Jewish Treasury bills. And it always amused me and that's what he would call them. But Warren used leverage to buy Jewish Treasury bills when on the way up and it worked fine for him. I don't think either of us are wise. Well, not always. But, Berkshire has stock in Activision Blizzard and you can argue that that's whether that'll go through or not, I don't know, but that's a Jewish Treasury bill. Arbitrage? The Arbitrage play on Activision? Well, yes, it went to Arbitrage. Because I was stopped doing it because it's such a crowded place. But here's, here's, little Berkshire doing it and get an Activision Blizzard and monger using a little leverage is the Daily General Corporation. So is leverage? You said leverage to buy BID, you can argue that's the best thing I've ever done for the Daily General. So is leverage the least evil of the three else? Well, being most people should avoid it, but maybe not everybody need play by those rules. I have a friend who says the young man knows the rules of the old man knows the exceptions. All right, another question. He's lived right. He knows. Another question comes in from Brandon McKee. He's also asking about some of the situations with Ali Baba. How should investors view geopolitical events in regards to their investment in foreign countries? How do you look at the situation of the recent Chinese spy balloon in regards to the Ali Baba investment? Well, of course, it was a very interesting thing. Jack Maul was a dominant capitalist in Ali Baba. One day he got up and made a public speech where he basically said the Communist Party is full of mohawk. They don't know they're asking for their bubble. They know they have good and I'm smart. And of course, the Communist Party didn't particularly like his speech and pretty soon he just sort of disappeared from view for months on end. And now he's out of BID. It was pretty stupid. It's like poking a bear in the nose of the sharp stick. It's not smart. And Jack Maul got way out of line by popping off the way he did to the Chinese government. And of course, it hurt Ali Baba. But I regard Ali Baba as one of the worst mistakes I ever made in thinking about Ali Baba got charmed with the idea of their position on the Chinese Internet. I didn't stop to realize that still had got them retailer. It's going to be a competitive business the Internet. It's not going to be a cakewalk for everybody. Just about China in general. I had a lot of questions that came in regarding that. I'll ask this one from Wilco Schutzendorf. It's coming in from Walnut Creek, California, who just said previously you stated that despite certain shortcomings, China was generally moving in the right direction. However, with the recent actions taken by the Chinese government, such as capriciously punishing technology and educational companies, declining to import effective COVID vaccines, escalating threats towards Taiwan, do you still maintain that China is a viable investment option for foreign capital or is China experiencing a similar regression as Russia has seen under Putin's leadership that culminates in the invasion of Taiwan? Well, that's a very good question, of course. But I would argue the chances in a big competition from China have gone down, not up because of what happened in the Ukraine. I think that the Chinese leader is a very smart, practical person. Russia went into the Ukraine and said, look, look, a cakewalk. I don't think Taiwan looks like such a cakewalk anymore. I think it's off the table in China for a long long time. I think that helps the prospects of investors who invest in China. The other thing that helps in terms of the China prospects are that you can buy better stronger companies that keep evaluation in China than you can in the United States. You're getting the extra risk can be worth running given the extra value you get. That's why we're in China. It isn't like we prefer being in some foreign country. Of course, I'd rather be in Los Angeles right next to my house. It'll be more convenient. I can't find that many investments right next to my house. I'll follow up on that. Alex writes in Alex for Mansky. I'm sorry, it's very small print. How have political events in China over the last few months affected your thinking on the country? Several people, including me, were taken aback by the forceful withdrawal of former President Huzion Tao at the October 22, annual Congress. President Xi seems to have consolidated power and his actions have indicated that he thinks very differently about the role of business in Chinese society. I have more optimism about the leader of the Chinese party than most people do. He's done a lot right too. He's done a lot of things right. I don't know where this man lives. Where is there a place where the government is perfect in the world of Sun and Sorrow? The democracies aren't that readily run either. So it's natural to have some decisions made by governments that don't work well. We live in a world of sensoro and misdecision. That's what human beings get to cope with in their days of life. I don't expect the world to be free of following mistakes and so forth. I just hope I have more good judgments and bad judgment. I don't know anybody who's right all the time. I'm not sure if I can do that. I'm not sure if I can do that. I'm not sure if I can do that. What are the chips and the science of the chips and science act favorably? In the semiconductor industry, you have to take all the money you've made. With each new generation of chips, you throw in all the money you've made. It's compulsory investment of everything you want to stay in the game. Naturally, I hate a business like that. In Berkshire, we go out of surplus money to come in and we can do something else with. If you're enough ahead of it like Taiwan, the semiconductor is, that may be a good buy at these prices. It's not at all clear to me that I'm not going to succeed mightily. It's a difficult, it's a business with enormous promise for the big winner. But it's a difficult business in requiring everybody to keep increasing the bets on and on with all the money. It's not perfect that semiconductor business. But I remember when Intel owned the world, Intel was once the Taiwan semiconductor business of the world. They invented the damn business and they dominated it for decades. And it's not clear to me that Intel is going to have a very decent semiconductor business getting as far behind as they are now. It's my answer is it's not so damn foolproof as it looked. Even with the incentives to build plants here in the United States, Intel is doing in Ohio. Well, of course that will really help, but they're borrowing the money. There's no indication the government is going to forgive the loans or something. It's not like the recent loans to business where they said, well, loan you the money and then it was a warehouse, oh, keep the money. The government is not planning to do that with these new semiconductor loans. And so, look, it's not a field where I have a lot of expertise. What the hell do I know about semiconductors? Do you worry about any conditions that the government would put on companies that end up using any of that money with semiconductors or anything else? Well, of course all of that. It's deeply intertwined with government policies in both China and the United States. So I would rather have something that's more foolproof myself. But I do think Taiwan, semiconductor, is the strongest semiconductor company on Earth. So I have a big admirer of what they've achieved. It's just incredible of what they've achieved. Speaking of things you like better, Omni-Pens. And by the way, maybe a wonderful investment. The fact that I don't like it because I'm an old man and I don't like learning new tricks. That doesn't mean it isn't right for some younger person to not understand it better than I do. Okay, actually, I'm going to switch gears. We'll come back to this question in a minute, but that leads me to this question about crypto that Benjamin writes in. He says, in 2007 at the USC Law School, Charlie said, I'm not entitled to have an opinion on this subject unless I can state the arguments against my position better than the people who are supporting it. The question is, does this also apply to your Wall Street Journal article on banning cryptocurrencies? And if yes, would you care to share the arguments against your position? Well, I don't think there are good arguments against my position. I think the people who oppose my position are idiots. And so I don't think there is a rationale. You want to get my position. This is an incredible thing. Naturally, people like to run gambling can see it elsewhere. And the people who invented this crypto crap, which is my name for it. Sometimes I call it crypto crap, and sometimes I call it crypto shit. And it's just ridiculous that anybody would buy this stuff. You can think of hardly nothing on earth that has done more good to the human race than currency, national currencies. They were absolutely required to turn man from a damn successful ape about modern successful humans and human civilization. This is the enabled all these convenient exchanges. So if somebody says I'm going to create something that sort of replaces the national currency, it's like saying I'm going to replace the national air. It's as a lie. It is. It is slightly stupid. It's massively stupid. And of course, it's very dangerous. Of course, the governments were totally wrong to permit it. And of course, I'm not proud of my country for allowing this crap. I call it crypto shit. It's worthless. It's no good. It's crazy. It'll do nothing but harm. It's anti-social to allow it. And the guy who made the correct decision on this is the Chinese leader. The Chinese leader took one look at crypto shit. He says not in my China. And boom. There isn't any crypto shit in China. He's right and we're wrong. And there is no good argument on the other side. I can't support it. So does that counter what you said back at you? You shouldn't have a position unless you encounter. No, it isn't counter. I do think you ought to be able to state out a lot of issues. How big should the social safety that be? That's a place where reasonable minds can disagree. And you should be able to state the case on the other side about as well. In case you believe in. But when you're dealing with something as awful as crypto shit, it's just unspeakable. It's an absolute horror. And I'm ashamed of my country. That's so many people believe in this crap. And the government allows it to exist. It is totally, absolutely crazy, stupid gambling with enormous house odds for the people on the other side. And they cheat in addition to cheating and betting. And it's just crazy. So that is something that there's only one correct answer for intelligent people there. He's just totally avoided. And avoid all the people that are promoting it. How do you feel about the gambling that took place at the Super Bowl and surrounding that and the legalized gambling taking place in this country at this point? Well, it's not as bad as crypto shit. I don't think there's much harm in betting on modest about you going to afford on a Super Bowl game. That strikes me as pretty. You know, pretty good to do it with a friend and not with a bookie. So I don't have the same feeling. I obviously don't think you should have a gambling impulse into a run of betting against odds. If you take all the money that I have bet against odds in my whole life, I don't think it's more than a few thousand dollars. Alan Chewrightson. And he says if I'm all in favor of betting with the odds with the odds. Yeah. Alan Chewrightson. Yeah, sure. He says if Mr. Munger thinks the Bitcoin and Ethereum are rap poison, has he ever profited by shorting them? No, I don't short. I haven't made three short sales in my entire life. And they're all more than 30 years ago. And one was a currency and there were two stock trades. Two stock trades, I made a big profit on one and made a big loss on the other and they canceled out. And my currency bet I made a million dollars but it was a very irritating way to make a million dollars. I've stopped. Not worth the headache, I guess. Well, you could laugh. But that's true. It was irritating. Because you were worried? Well, because I kept asking you for more margin. I kept sending over Treasury notes. It was very unpleasant. I made a profit on the end but I never wanted to do it again. Charlie, I said I'd come back to this question. This was about something that you do like as an investment. Ami Patel from Montreal, Quebec writes in that you love Costco. So what do you think can hurt Costco's economic mode in the long term? Well, as long as Costco keeps the faith, strong culture and their extreme low markup policy, I don't see any stopping it. The trouble with Costco's, it's 40 times earnings. But except for that, it's a perfect damp comedy. And it has a marvelous future. And it has a wonderful culture and it's from around my wonderful people. I love everything about Costco. I'm a total addict. And I'm never going to sell share. The next question comes from David Cass, who's a professor of finance at the University of Maryland. He says he's a shareholder of the Daily Journal Corporation and would appreciate it if you'd answer one of these questions. The question that I'll ask from his president Biden has proposed increasing the tax on stock buybacks from its current level of 1% to a new higher level of 4%. What are your views on taxing stock buybacks? Well, I'm strongly opposed because I think if you're a good culture has a lot of people who are good for new series. And it is like stealing to do something dumb with the corporate money when it's, you can get more advantageous your shoulders, so buyback your own stock. And I like encouraging morality and decency and honor. And so when you're dealing with the people you're the fiduciary for. And so I agree with our president on some things, but this is not one of them. They immediately disagree. Well, I'm not vehement because it's not as bad as cryptocurrency. It's a forgivable error. But yes, I disagree strongly. I think it's a big mistake to adopt that policy. But I'm a Republican. I sometimes vote for Democrats, but I am a Republican. Another question on stock buybacks comes in from Ed Prendaville in Morristown, New Jersey. He says Berkshire Sherry purchases slowed considerably from $3 billion in the first quarter of 2022 to $1 billion in the second quarter and $1 billion in the third quarter, even though the price declined somewhat as did the general market. One would think that the buyback would increase with a lower stock price. Does Berkshire adjust its buyback price based on the intrinsic value of the approximately $300 billion stock portfolio or the quoted price? I never pay any attention to how they do it. They're cautious and careful people. But if you take the amount that's been bought back in the last three years, that's a lot. And I thoroughly approve what we're doing. And I don't consider it all fair that we're being taxed. We're doing something good for our own shareholders. The president laid out the case today. I think he said something like north of 90% of executives are paid with stock compensation at least in part. He said, maybe this was yesterday that he said that that's not fair. The best way to goose your own compensation is to buy back your shares. So it helps the executives. It helps the shareholders, but it doesn't help the employees or other constituents. Well, there's no question about the fact that he symbolizes with the employees more. And that's understandable. And a lot of people would have the president's orientation on that issue. And I don't have a big opinion about how well thought it would be distributed in the country. I don't know the answer. I do think we need a capitalist system if we want to have a productive economy that makes several of these in advance. All right. The next question comes in from Michael. And I think his last name is Maso. But I'm going based on the address from the email and not a given last name. He says he's a very long time Berkshire Sheron or that who read an irritating recent barons article that stated Berkshire Sheroners could benefit after Warren as the company could come under pressure to break up. I don't see how we would benefit with our businesses being broken up as you and Warren have long stated the company as a whole is stronger than and one division could always aid another division in need. He says he knows Warren and you Charlie have said that the current structure in philanthropies will be preserved after your departures and I hope for a very I hope not for a very long time. However, please offer us shareholders reassurance that the company would never succumb to these silly pressures to break it up. Well, I don't think it's at all likely that we've broken up for a long long time. A lot of companies are worth more dead than alive meaning at the current price for whole businesses, you could sell things at higher prices. But you only do it once. The shareholders are paying big tax and you'd have the problem of what to do with the money and so forth. I think all factors considered and with Berkshire buying in its own shares when they're reasonably priced. I think Berkshire is a pretty damn good bet for shareholders to hold a long term in the future and I don't think it's any hardship but it isn't being broken up. It works pretty damn well. Everybody that bought Berkshire's hell over 20 years has done well. I think that will be true for those who buy it at the current price. What about the potential for pressure? It'll be as good in the future as it was in the past but it will be okay considering all poorly everything else is going to do. Why do you think everything else is going to do so poorly? Because the valuations start higher now and because government is so hostile to business. And that's a view over the next five, 10, 20 years how far out are you thinking? I would say it'll fluctuate naturally between administrations and so on but I think basically the culture of the world will become more and more anti-business in the big democracies. And I think Texas will go up, not down. So I think the investment world is going to get harder for everybody. But it's been almost too easy in the past for the investment class. It's natural that it would have a period of getting harder. I don't worry about it much because I'm going to be dead. You know it won't bother me very much when I'm like, they're dead. I guess you want to point out to people you're 99, nobody lives forever and that's what you're referring to. Yeah, I know 99. You're not sick at the moment. No, I'm eating this good peanut brittle. That's what you ought to do if you want to live to be 99. We did get some people who wrote in asking about. I hate to advertise my own product but this is the key to longevity. C's peanut brittle, I can see. I saw the box earlier. We did get a lot of people who wrote in questions just asking what your daily habits are, what you do every day if you exercise, if you think exercising a lot when you're younger is important to longevity. Well, that's a very, I have almost no exercise except for the Army Air Corps made me do exercise. I've done almost no exercise on purpose in my life. If I enjoyed the activity like tennis I would exercise. But for the first 99 years I've gotten by without doing any exercise at all. And you're not planning on changing that anytime soon? No, I'm not changing it. Other people's mileage may vary. I'm looking for one question that somebody wrote in because I want to word it properly and it has to do with what you've just been talking about. I don't know if I can find it. There's a lot of questions in here. Somebody said this came from a deity gone in Australia. What would the 100th day of your life look like and how would you want to spend it when you step out of bed in the morning? Well, I step out of my bed these days and sit down in my wheelchair. So I am paying some price for old age. But I prefer it to being dead. And whenever I feel sad in a wheelchair I think we know Rosalto ran the whole damn country for 12 years in a wheelchair. So I'm just trying to make this wheelchair thing last as long as Rosalto did. That's good plan. I like it. Somebody else wrote in this is Adam Mead and he said Charlie in your 1995 talk, the psychology of misjudgment, you listed senesense as a cause of misjudgment. You said old people like me get pretty skilled without working on it at disguising age related deterioration because social convention like clothing hides much decline. You went on to say that such decline was inevitable. He says you're my hero Charlie and I offer you this question with the utmost respect but feel it needs to be asked would 71 year old Charlie just trust the judgment and mental capacity of 99 year old Charlie. Well there's no question about the fact that you lose some mental equity as you get older but some people get shorter at adapting to their limitations and they do pretty well. So far I've had plenty of decline but I'm pretty shrewd about the way I handled it. And so far the results have not been that bad in my old age. I will point out to people we have not given you any of these questions in advance so you're taking blind questions for a large stretch of time on this too. Okay, how do I follow that up? Another question this could expect to invest in what we were just talking about a minute ago but Michael worked early writes in and says given the increasing rate environment what are the ramifications of moving away from a close to zero interest rate policy. Warren and yourself have frequently spoken about ASOP and a burden the hand is worth two in the bush to describe the essence of investment decision making. So what do you do now that the interest rate environment is changing? Well there's no question about the fact that as the interest rates have gone up it's hostile to stock prices. But they should go up. We couldn't have kept them forever at zero and I just think this is one more damn thing to adapt to. The investment life is that there are there are headwinds and there are tailwinds and one of the headwinds is inflation and I think more inflation over the next 100 years is inevitable with given the nature of democratic politics politics in a democracy. So we have more inflation that's one of the reasons the daily journal on securities instead of government bonds on its common stocks instead of government bonds. When you say the nature of democratic policies and I forget exactly how you worded it are you talking about the democratic party or are you talking about democracy as opposed to the party. Trump ran on deficit that was bigger than the democrats did. All democratic all politicians in a democracy tend to be in favor of printing the money and spending it and that will cause some inflation over time. It may avoid a few recessions to it may not be all bad but it will do more harm than good I think from this point forward. Okay on that point Ron tree Ratola Ron tree Ratola says should we maintain continue to maintain a debt limit the adjustment process seems to be a very simple and mechanical process. However such a measure only seems to create an environment right with political jockeying and sniping what's the purpose if we continue to budget beyond our means and then the bill comes to. If you take the history of democracy in the world and go back far enough it fails a lot and gets succeeded by dictatorships and all kinds of awful things. And as a matter of fact the worst thing that happened to the human race in my lifetime was an advanced civilization like Germany was taken over by a dictator as awful as a dull Hitler. That happened as a consequence of a big worldwide depression would never have happened if we hadn't had the big depression. And once Hitler got in that meant or World War 2 was inevitable and it could have worked out a lot worse than it did for the people like the United States. So these things are quite important and and they're not going to be done perfectly in the future no more than they were done perfectly in the past. So of course you got to expect a certain amount of future trouble in the world and your government's going to do some things that aren't exactly right. On the other hand I would argue that the US government did some things magnificently right. I have said on many occasion that if a thing that makes me proudest of my own government is the way we handled the sequel to World War 2. Instead of punishing the Germans and the Japanese we made them into some of our best friends on earth. Now that was a stunt. And it was to the credit of our country that that was done and it was done on a bipartisan basis. And I think we can all be proud of that. That was a smart thing to do and took some generosity we had to give up some of our money to help them rebuild. And it was it was a credit to our species that we behave that well on that occasion. And I don't think our future behavior will lack similar episodes of some kind. Will lack similar episodes or what? We'll do some things very right and some things very wrong. That's the way it happens. Yeah. That's very church LS, right? We'll try everything. All the wrong things until we do the right thing. No, I will keep doing both wrong and right as far ahead as you can see. Charlie, Al Pitten writes in from Chicago and wants to know if you think we might have on and off waves of inflation like we did prior to when Volker stepped in at the Fed. 70s era. Of course it will happen some in the future. Yes, I think we'll have some of that in the future. Do you think we'll have it immediately right now with what the J. Powell's dealing with? I don't I don't I don't regard myself. I think I'm pretty good at long run expectations. But I don't think I'm good at short term wobbles. I don't know the faintest idea is what's going to happen short term. Well, let me ask this one as a follow up. It's it's similar and you may not want to answer this one either, but Jake Pallard says do you have faith in J. Powell? Are you expecting us off landing? Well, the way I feel about J. Powell is that I feel he's about as good as we have any right to expect. I think he's honorable and intelligent and doing the best he can. And I have no feeling that I know a lot of people who do it a lot better. So I'm so I'm glad we have him. Charlie another question comes in from Chris Fried of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He says you've recommended the use of an index fund for the average investor. As these index funds continue to expand in size, their influence on corporate boards and ultimately management is ever increasing. This concentration of voting in the hands of a few index funds is alarming to me. Do you see this concentration is alarming as well? And what reforms would you suggest to address that issue? Well, of course it's a very serious issue because it's enormous amount of power. And for a while, these index funds got to feeling they were suddenly made Godlike to clean up the world. But Vanguard has retreated from that policy. And I think wisely so. And I have some hope that Larry think will follow. I don't think it's smart for for these index funds to try and influence the policy and politics of the country. Just because they're an index fund, I think they should be satisfied to eliminate some of the fall A for investment management and do a better job for their clients, which I think they do very well. And I think they should be pleased with that and not try and run the old M country as a matter of corporate governance. I have no feeling that anybody at Vanguard or Larry thinks operation has any special genius at how American corporations ought to be run. And they simply ask Berkshire to do this or that. I wish they'd stop. Ask Berkshire to do what? Oh, to follow their guidance. I'm just not interested in their view as to how Berkshire should behave. All right. This next question comes from Carson Federoff, who's an equity analyst, analyst from Germany. And his question is stock-based compensation is a popular means of incentive compensation in many companies. In some cases, these take on alarming proportions. It feels like companies are competing to outbid each other. And some companies 20% of sales are paid out in stock-based compensation. How do you perceive this development in recent years and what's a heavy, what's a healthy level of incentives? Well, I think you will find in American corporations very good incentive systems and others that are too liberal and others that are too negative. What else would you expect of human nature but a certain amount of variety? I agree that some of this in many a corporation, everybody would vote to be in a lot of stock-based compensation. You didn't count in computing the earnings. They just want any damn way of making the earnings appear higher. It's just human nature. Of course, they want their little kid goes off to school, they want to earn good grades, not bad grades. Sure, there's a big problem of excess corporation paying in some places. Other places like Costco, I would say the compensation system is damn near perfect. There's a fair amount of stock, but we always buy in enough stock and Costco to pay for the stock we're issuing. A lot of people in high tech, they issue the stock and they don't buy it in, so it's a net delusion. I think there's a lot that's wrong in American compensation systems. But why wouldn't there be? By the way, when I was young, it wasn't so bad. This is something that's happened in the last 50 years. I don't know, it's just the history of the way things came up in the greater hardship in the pioneering ethos or God. Whatever it was, when I was young, nobody complained about executive compensation. Now practically everybody in the investment world thinks in many cases, executive compensation has gotten too high. Take General Electric and it's heyday. Think of all the big compensation packages. They paid and think of how they were phoning up the earnings and so forth to pay for it. It was disgusting. And of course, if that kind of creeps in everywhere in our civilization, the civilizational parish, we need more honor or not less. But I have no suggestion as to how to fix the places where it's excessive. It's a difficult issue. Really difficult. Jeffrey Maloy writes in and asks this question. He's from San Francisco. He says, do you think Elon Musk's ownership of Twitter, specifically his hands-off approach to content moderation, is good or bad for American society? Well, you know, I don't use Twitter. So I'm not a good judge on that subject. And my policy on Elon Musk is that he's a very talented man, but also could be killer. And so I don't buy him and I don't sell him short. I just say, well, he's a very unusual person. You said some nice things about him the last time I talked to you and what he's done with Tesla? Oh, it's unbelievable. Who else has done it except BYD? It just shows how tough capitalism is. Even if you're a genius like Musk is in some ways, there's always something little BYD that comes out and does better. Capitalism is not easy. All right. This question came in from Jeremy Salzburg in Costa Mesa, California. He says, Charlie, last year in 2022, a Missouri court awarded a victim $5.2 million in compensation from Berkshire subsidiary Geico. After a woman was infected with an STD in a car that was insured by Geico auto insurance, the claimant says that the man was negligent and didn't tell her about his health diagnosis. Your grandfather was a judge and you have a background in law. Did the Missouri court get this verdict right? Well, I would doubt it myself, but it's in the nature of things that not every court is going to be right and every verdict or every judgment. And I do think that allowing... You again, you're raised a very tough subject. You will get occasional verdicts that are just totally outrageous. And that's inevitable. And of course, that's what a public court is for, but sometimes the public courts are very sympathetic with crazy verdicts. Again, I can't fix everything that's wrong with you in life, including a few crazy verdicts. You put that in the category of a crazy verdict, though? Yeah, sure. This question comes from Stefan Armand, who is writing in from Toronto. There was a lot of excitement about the relationship between Berkshire and 3G for the Kraft Heinz transaction. Has your perception of the private equity business changed on the back of that partnership? Well, like every other human being on Earth, some deals work out better than others for 3G. And they would love to have a way of going back and turning all their bad deals into good deals. Berkshire would like to have the same option. We don't get it either. It averaged out to 3G and did pretty well. But recently they've had some... Their approach hasn't worked as well. In recent years, it would be ideal. Again, welcome to human life. It isn't so damn easy. Art Presser writes in and says the Florida governor and legislative body has recently taken a stand to try and control Disney's exclusive self-governing authority previously set up in Florida under the founder Walt Disney. As your organization, and I guess by this they mean DJ Co. Still owns Disney Shares, you think Disney Shares are still a good investment given this backdrop? We've never owned Disney Shares. That's my mistake though. It's your home. No, but... The Disney is an interesting case. Practically every business the Disney has has gotten tougher than it used to be. Again, welcome to human life. Think about Disney once on the world. Lion King was running a long run on the theater district in New York. They went from Tri-ounce to Marching Marching. All of a sudden, on practically every front, it's more difficult. This is what happens. Imagine Kodak, which totally dominated photography in the world. And then in the event of this new technology, Kodak wiped out its common shareholders. You think Disney has had it down the same path or you think that they'll be able to pivot? I mean, I know you followed the company. No, I think Disney has a lot of assets in it. But it's unpleasant to have something. How would you like running the sports ESPN now at Disney compared to it's A-Day? It's going to be way harder for them. The stocks up this year. Movie movies look to me like it's going to be a blood bath too. It's not a very easy. It was easy. In the heyday of ESPN, Disney made nothing but money out of ESPN. It was a total gold mine. What about other movie businesses? I'm thinking of Paramount, which is a huge holding that Berkshire Nallons recent. I live within a few blocks of Paramount studios. And I don't even know anybody at Paramount. I have avoided the movies like the plague as an investor on my life. I've never made an investment in a movie business in any way shaped better for them. It always gives me the will it was. I don't like the unions. I don't like the crazy agents. I don't like the goddamn crazy lawyers. I don't like the crazy movie stars. I don't like the people who sell dope to the musicians. Everything about it is not my culture. I liked those old English actors when they came over. I grew up with them. But basically, movies is not my scene. I have avoided it. It's always been very hard for the people who put up the money. It may be a very good place to make a living as an actor or a writer or something or a musician. But it's a hard place to make money if you're an investor. This one's an interesting question. I came in from Eric Howe in Milwaukee who says the population of the world is thought to have increased by more than four fold time since you were born. Mind you, I'm not holding you personally responsible. But there has been that magnitude of growth. Is there a point where the biggest existential threat to humanity is the growth of the population and humanity? So, how do we discern when that point has arrived? Well, that's an interesting subject. If you'd looked at the way things that happened in the past, you would have concluded like Paul Arleic did that the world's headed for an absolute population this aster. But what actually has happened is quite different. What's happened is that as the world has gotten more and more prosperous, including in places like China, the birth rate has gone down, down, down, down. And so that there's actually sort of a population shortage in a place like Japan. So the production of all the great experts based on extrapolating the past graphs that turn out to be totally wrong. It now looks at the world's population and the advanced countries will sort of self-limit. I mean, that kind of puts you in the same camp with Elon Musk. He's made some of the same arguments that it's really shrinking population that's a bigger threat to humanity. I was like, I said, he's a smart man sometimes. Sometimes. Like a little arrest of us. Danny Poland writes in and says, when assessing the character and competence of a business management, have you ever made a mistake? If so, when did this occur? And what did you learn from the experience? Well, everybody makes mistakes. And one of the most interesting things that happened in my lifetime was the rise of IBM and the fall of IBM. IBM was the most admired company in America for most of my young life. They just marched from triumphs to triumphs of triumphs. In the last 10 or 15 years, they've slept and they're falling back in relation to other people in their field. That's the apples and the Googles and so forth came ahead. IBM just kind of missed the boat. I think that's almost inevitable. Kodak missed the boat of the change to digital photography too. I've heard Bill Gates say that it's almost the rule of a really disruptive technology comes along the incumbent screw up their reaction to it. It's hard to change your ways when they've been successful for a long time and go into a totally different way of behaving. And thinking. This question. Well, we're sitting and the general corporation. We're adapting to the new world. I think about different it is publishing a newspaper and and being a inventing software records to automate. These are two radically different businesses. This question comes in from someone named Jean who says Mr. Munger, do you think that currently in the United States we have systemic racism? We have what systemic racism? Well, I suppose we've got some sure. Of course you're going to have a certain amount of animosity one group toward another. The whole history of the human race we've had a certain amount of that. I think it's gotten way better in my lifetime however. I would argue that the racism is going down. A lot. Charlie, this question comes in from Neil Doss who says what if any impact do you think the insurance industry will see because of climate change over the next 25 years? Well, I'm not sure I have any good answering that kind of a question. Are you raising rates in any of the Berkshire insurance companies? I don't think I know particularly how well. I think there's a good chance that climate change will be less important than all of you will think. That doesn't mean it will be unimportant but I think it won't be an absolute full one horror capacity with no possibility of just. I wait because sometimes when I wait you say more on things but I'll give you time to. Okay, let me get to this question from Tony Huang. He says that he's teaching the introduction of personal finance and the introduction of corporate finance to undergraduates at Indiana University in Bloomington. Most of his students are non-finance majors and this will likely be the only finance class that they take in college. What should he teach them incorporating as many writings and speeches that you've given over the years so that they have the foundations and common sense to effectively deal with their personal or corporate finance. What are your personal or corporate finance problems later in life? Well, that's a good question because it's a big question. If you have good judgment, your life will work a lot better than if you have bad judgment. And you get good judgment gradually over time, partly by making bad judgments and having them not work out poorly. So my council has always been to start trying to be better and keep trying to improve all your life. You got about half a chance. If you don't do that, you got like no chance. And so. I used to say I could only teach with the other person almost nose. And I can just chew more of the drink when he's hanging on the edge. But if a guy is not within miles of even starting, I never make any public. I never succeed. So when removing idiocy, I have 100% fail in Utah. I've never succeeded. What would you push in that direction if you got a class full of finance students in college? Maybe one of the few lessons. Well, I would teach to the people who can learn and the others couldn't keep up the hell with them. It can't be a brood, can't be a brood. I don't believe anybody would get it. And that, by the way, that's the way most education works. They just throw out those who can't keep up. That's the way I can aim your works. That's the reason it gets so good at the top. I talked yesterday on Zoom with a law professor at a great place. My god, this is an admirable guy. He's just so goddamn smart and balanced and incredible. But he's a very senior law teacher at one of the great law schools of the world. So I would expect him to be pretty good, but he was more than pretty good. He was awesome. And I thought, my god, academia is quite competitive. By the time you get to the top of the professors in a good place, you find some very remarkable people. But they can't. There's a limit to what they can accomplish. One of the reasons they turn out such good people is they take in such good people. That's their secret. They can't fix the gods. Nobody can. Tough love. It's an old saying, dumb is forever. Dumb and diamonds. Alejandro Salcedo writes in, he says, reading many entrepreneurs and famous people, they always say that you have to dream really big. Instead, you say, Charlie, that the secret to a happy life is having low expectations. Could you please expand on that? Well, yes. And you climb as hard as you can by just advancing one inch at a time. That's the secret of life. Now, there's always somebody who's a little not too succeeds. But for every guy who succeeds, there are a thousand failures. Is this an under promise over deliver situation too? Well, of course, who in the hell is right mind? Would like going around making a lot of commitments and failing time after time after time at doing what you'd promise to do? Everybody would hate you, right? There's no more guaranteed way to make people hate you than to fail them in their reasonable expectations. So, of course, you want to live a life where by and large, you're meeting the reasonable expectations of other people. That's what civilization requires of all of us. Charlie, someone named Joe wrote in from China and he says, he's an investor from China. He's sorry that he can't see you face to face this year. He wants to ask you a question about life during the pandemic. He says, I always give bits of advice to the elders in my family, like avoiding high temperatures and falling down at home. But during the pandemic, especially since China reopened, I can sell them, give them any advice, except stay at home and get vaccinated. So, as a wise elder yourself, did you get COVID during the pandemic and how do you stay healthy? What's your advice to these elders? I did get COVID, but I got it after I was vaccinated. I had like a tiny sniffle for about 10 minutes. And that was my COVID, but I tested positive during that time. And in terms of the general idea of cautious adjustment, I had so a lot of elderly friends who either died or had terrible injuries from falls. And so I got old myself and it got time to use something to avoid falling down. People tried to sell me on the cane. But I noticed that my friends who use canes would fall down occasionally. So I never used the goddamn cane. I still bought one of these modern walkers. And wherever I was worried about falling down, I pushed my walker. I did that for six and a half years. I never fell down once in six and a half years, just because I was more cautious. That is my advice to old people, just be a little more cautious. Now I've gone to the wheelchair. And I've got another six and a half years probably. But some of them have already used up. And I'm just as cautious with my wheelchair. What is the hormone having a little extra caution? Makes sense. I want to pivot to a question from Frank Wang in Houston, Texas. This question about Berkshire. He said Berkshire previously took a position in Exxon and then exited fairly quickly. If I recall correctly, he says, I believe you had stated that Berkshire thought it was a good alternative to cash at the time. Is the same type of thinking with Berkshire's new position in Occidental and Chevron? Is it the same type of thinking or is it likely to be more of a long term type of holding for Berkshire going forward? Well, that is a very good question. And I think having a big position in the Perian Basin through those two companies is likely to be a pretty good long term hold. So I like that aspect of that position. And Ben Graham used to say, if it's a good investment, it may be a good speculation. And I think that's generally true, but I don't do those short term speculations, at least not very often. But I like the big position that Berkshire has in the Permian through those two. I kind of admire both places a lot. Both Occidental and Chevron are very admirable places. And by the way, Oxey didn't start like that. If you go back 30 or 40 years, Oxey was on right crook. And it's evolved into an honorable place, but it started as a flea's bag. Who was running at 30 or 40 years ago? A man named Armand Hammer. Before your time back here, you're too young. I know, Army Hammer, the younger one. Yeah. Anyway. All right. Paul D writes in. And I believe it's Paul Damocop, says, Charlie, you're largely credited with Warren Buffett's evolution to buying great businesses at a reasonable price or in simple terms, a willingness to pay up for a great business. Given Ben Graham's exceptional insights and understanding of investing, how or why did he himself not evolve to foresee the inability to scale his net net cigar butt approach? What do you attribute your early willingness to pay up stems from? Well, remember that a lot of Ben Graham's rise in life was during a period when there was plenty of low hanging fruit among mediocre businesses that were way too cheap. And he was relatively rare in doing his hunting in that garden. And so he made a pretty good living for himself. What happened is that that low hanging fruit eventually went away as the after-welfl of the Great Depression went away. And Ben Graham actually made more than a half of all the money he made in his life out of one stock. And that stock was Kikel, which was a great business. So if you actually look at the Great Man's own life, you see that what he taught wasn't the way he would got rich himself. And by the way, he told that story on himself later in life. He carefully computed how much he'd made in Gangkul, where did everything he'd ever done in his previous life. And so you can argue that Ben Graham himself woke up once. Why do you think that you so early on were willing to come up with this idea of paying up for great businesses? Well, because it's so obvious and I'm good at doing things that are obvious. Of course it was obvious if you wanted to have whatever good business. All you had to do a great company. I recognize that greatness was good. Big deal. Charlie Munger, genius, recognizes greatness is good. Of course greatness is good. Paul Aiene from Toronto, Canada writes it and he says, when you're evaluating a company for potential investment, what do you place the most emphasis on? The business or the management and do you differ with Warren when it comes to what you place first? No, I don't know how I think we're the same. I think we like the business great first. And then second, we want a great manager. But we have not made a huge success by investing on great managers who take over a lot of new businesses. That is not the way we rose. Matt McAllister writes, you're a lozzy manager. You really, really need a great business. Can a great business be run by a lozzy manager, the inverse? Sometimes Coca-Cola was run for years by a man with a very severe mental impairment. And the director of the system, somebody was drunk and letting the day they were here after. Now that's my idea of a wonderful business that you can be mentally defective and run it pretty well. That was Coca-Cola in a say day. How far back were you talking? Well, 25 years. I'll let somebody else do the math on that, figure out the timing. Matt McAllister writes in and says, Charlie, you've described too much diversification as the worstification, being it best an average return producing strategy. And light of that thought, if one was allowed only one stock to hold for a very long time, and it would be the most important asset to him and his family and their future, well-being, please describe what you would look for in that stock or company. And also talk about the features that you would consider most important when you're trying to figure that out. Well, it helps to have a, somebody that's reluctant to do a good position. So a great business that we would like. And of course you'd like a great management too. And occasionally we've had both the right together for a long, long period. And, but of course everybody's looking for the same thing. And the trouble with it is you will find when you get to those good businesses, you know, places picked over and analyzed as American stocks are. And you can imagine the amount of time spent thinking about American stocks. And you will find by and large in America, if it's really a great business, it's at least 25 times earnings and maybe 30 or 35 or something. So that makes it much harder of course, because if something goes wrong, you can lose a lot of your investment. And of course that's what makes investment so difficult is the fact that the good businesses don't stay cheap. You've got to somehow recognize a good business before it's recognizable as a good business. That's very hard to do. Some people get good at it, but not many. I don't think I would want 95% of the people who are America's professional asset managers. I wouldn't want working for me. I need that hard. I think you need to be in the top 5% to have a reasonable chance. It's very difficult. Now it's not difficult. This is by an index phone and selling your ass. That's the great default position. Your assets? And by the way, that's if you said, look at the daily journal corporation, we just put in a 401k plan. What are the investment options for the people that work? Zero. It's all index phones. And if you want percentage of American, what percentage of American 401k have our plan? Index phones are required about zero. Am I right or am I wrong? Of course I'm right. It's a logical thing to do. Okay, so percent worth two and twenty. Sometimes. Sometimes. Being worth two and twenty, I would say, that is way less than five percent. The man is worth two and twenty. That is really, that's getting very rare indeed. Pitley under modern conditions where every niche is occupied. If you take early stage venture capital like Sequoia does, how many people have a Sequoia-like record? I don't think there's one in a hundred that has a Sequoia-type record. Chris Fried from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania writes in and says, you've said previously that you... And by the way, even Sequoia makes, even Sequoia makes an occasional mistake. You know, everybody does. But overall, you still think it's worth it? Yeah. Okay. So Chris Fried writes in from Philadelphia and says, you've previously... You've said previously that you should destroy at least one good idea that you have each year. What good idea did you destroy in 2022 and anything in 2023 so far? Well, the idea that I destroyed that was... It wasn't a good idea. It was a bad idea. When the Internet came in, I got over-charmed by the people who were leading in the online retelling. And I didn't realize it's still retelling, you know, it may be online retelling, but it's also still retelling. I got a little bit of focus, and that made me overestimate the future of retelling Somali-Baba. And so... I have never gotten so I've eliminated mistakes. I think I just lost Charlie's audio and the chair. I keep asking you, rubbing my own nose in my own mistakes. I'm doing now because I think it's good for myself. Can hear me, but I can't hear you. You dropped out during that last question. Can you do me a favor, just raise your hand if you can hear me. Charlie can hear me. I'm not hearing him. So if you guys can call and I'm hooked in directly to the line. Now I'm hearing program. Not this program. I'm hearing live on air program coming from here music that's coming in. Charlie, I'm going to ask you another question just so that everybody else doesn't have to listen to me talking this through. We're going to try and get this fixed here in the control room. But this question comes in from... Let's see. Let's go to this one. Chris Benassi, who asked the question about... He says, hi Charlie, a notable theme during the last daily journal conversation revolved around positive and negative trade-offs between different systems, frameworks and choices. Can you discuss your views on the healthcare industry, specifically the trade-offs between capitalist systems like the United States and single-payer systems like Canada in the UK. And I'm asking this single-payer healthcare question because for those who don't know you serve for a long time as chairman at a hospital in Los Angeles. So you do have some insights into what this situation is. And feel free to talk a long time while they're fixing this. Yes, all right. When somebody asked what happened, what happened, their experiment with JP Park and Chase and Amazon and so forth. And they were going to change... They were improved. What was wrong with the American medicine and his cost. And when they gave that up as a total failure, Warren just said the tape, worm one. And that's what happens. I think the American system is... Costs way too much. Can you hear me? Charlie, I see your lips have stopped moving. So I'm going to ask another question. Yeah, I'm hearing power lunch in my ear right now if anybody's paying attention in the control room. But this question comes in from Brad Heck. Brad Heck is in South St. Paul, Minnesota and says, Charlie, I'm a big fan of your discipline approach to life. Do you get up at the same time every day and go to the bed at the same time? And finally, what's the first thing you focus on each day? Well, I'm very little in my time, but I'm pretty regular. And I'm a pretty good sleeper in my old age. So I'm very lucky in that respect. I'm very lucky. See your lips have stopped moving. So I'm asking. Got you. I got you. Finally, I hear you. Okay, Charlie, let me ask you this question. We got sound again. Yeah, I've got you. Modern technology. I know. I think we'd be a little better at this. Sometimes it works. Jim Nwell writes in and said, if you could inaugurate anyone for president in 2024, who would you choose? Well, I think I'll duck that one. I don't want to get into presidential politics. Okay, I hear that. I can understand that. Charles writes in and says, first of all, he wants to thank you, Charlie, for gifting some DJ co-shares to establish that newly, that new daily journal management equity incentive plan. You talked about that earlier on. He said additionally, he's excited about the rumored new addition of poor Charlie's Almanac. First of all, is that true? But the real question he has for you, he said, you said that you admire Benjamin Franklin. Can you please elaborate on this subject and highlight the qualities that you admire in Ben Franklin? Well, Ben Franklin was a genius. It was a small country, but remember, he started an absolute poverty. His father made so part of the carcassists of dead animals with stank. Now, that is a very low place to start from. And he was almost entirely self-educated two or three years of primary school. And after that, he had to learn to roll himself. Well, the rise from that kind of a starting position and become a time he died. He was the best inventor in his country, the best scientist in his country, the best writer in his country, the best diplomat in his country. You know, the thing after thing after thing, he was the best there was in the whole United States. He was a very unusual person. And he just got an extremely high IQ in a very kind of pithy way of talking that made him very useful to his fellow citizens. And he kept inventing all these things. Imagine inventing the Franklin stove and bifocal glasses and all these things that we use all the time. I'm wearing bifocal glasses as I'm looking at you. These are Ben Franklin glasses. What the hell kind of a man that just goes through life and he gets a little perfect. He invented the goddamn bifocal. And it was just one of his many inventions. So he was a very, very remarkable person. And of course I admire somebody like that. We don't get very many people like Ben Franklin. He was the best writer in his country. He was the best writer in his nation. And also the best scientist and also the best inventor. And did that ever happen again? Yes, all these other things. Yes. So is there a new addition of four Charlie's on that? And he played four different musical instruments. That part I didn't know. One of which he invented. What was he invented? The glass thing that rubber disfangers on the glass. They still play it occasionally. Yeah. With like different layovers of water. But he actually played on four different instruments. And he was a diplomat and helped the world of the country and taught us about compound interest with the trust that he set up for both Philadelphia and for Boston that still hundreds of years later are paying out. No, he was a very amazing person. Of course the country was glad that we were lucky to have him. Is it true? Is there a new poor Charlie's on when that coming out? Well, they're creating an online edition. Okay. You've talked about some... By the way, the Chinese edition sold way more than one of the United States. Well, there's more people there. That's not the sole reason. Why else? Well, a rich old man looks like Confucius. And their system is nothing better than a rich old man. Yeah. Charlie, saying park writes in a question. And this is about delayed gratification. Take into the extreme how rational is it for a person of your age and wealth to practice delayed gratification? If it's not rational at your age, how is it rational to delay gratification for the average adult? So what's the rational point in life to live with no delayed gratification to? I'm still doing... Now that I'm old, I buy these apartment houses. It gives me something to do. And we're different from the way we run them and the way everybody else runs them. Everybody else is trying to show high incomes so they can have high distributions. We're trying to find ways to intelligently spend money, to make them better. And of course, our apartments do better than other people do because the man who runs them does it so well for me. The man, they're too young, man, they do it with me. But it's all deferred gratification. We're looking for opportunities to defer. Other people are looking for ways to enjoy it. It's a different way of going at life. Did you start out that way? I get more in general on my life doing it my way than theirs. Did you start out having to work at delayed gratification or is that just how you were born? No, I learned this trick early. And you know they've done that experiment with two marshmallows with little kids. Yeah. How long can you sit? Two marshmallows if you'll wait. And they've done, watch some how they work out in life by now. And the delayed grass, the little kids who are good at deferring the marshmallows are all the people that succeed in life. It's kind of sad that so much is inborn so to speak. But you can learn it to some extent too. I'm going to go home and test that out on my kids. I was very lucky. I just naturally took to defer gratification very early in life. Of course it's helped me ever since. Matt McAllister writes in and says, first thank you for sharing your wisdom. Those of us fortunate enough to listen have benefited significantly. We've come to know that Warren Buffett, we've come to know Warren Buffett as a learning machine because of your candid descriptions. Aside from this quality, what others would you credit to Warren that has helped make him one of the greatest investors and compounders that the world's ever seen? Well, Warren is not only a very good thinker and a good learner, which is important. But Warren has a big strong, fiduciary gene. He cares about what happens to the shareholders. Warren and I were lucky and that the early shareholders, or people who trusted us, we were young and didn't have a reputation and so on. And naturally we feel an exceptional loyalty to those people. And of course naturally they're all dead now, but we're still loyal to them. Warren and I still care what happens to the Berkshire shareholders a lot. And I think that helps us. I think that it helps if you're good at loyalty. Go ahead, Becky. Okay, so Bala Thura Panembachum writes in and says that many large companies, including Metta, which owns Facebook and various insurances, are choosing to self-insure against liability, either for directors or for the business risks. If it's carried to extremes, it would note as it no doubt will be over time, this could cause potential systemic issues. Would you share your thoughts on this, please? He says he's been a shareholder of Berkshire Hathaway for 16 years. And thanks you for your stewardship and sharing your thoughts generously with the younger generations with more of 60s. Well, I, in my own life, I'm a big self-insurer and so is Warren. It's ridiculous for me to carry fire insurance on my houses because I can so easily rebuild a house that would burn down. So why would I want to bother fooling around with the claims process and all kinds of things? So insurance, you should ensure against things you can't afford to pay for yourself. But if you can afford to take the bumps, you know, some unusual expense coming along doesn't really hurt you that much. Why would you want to fool around with some insurance company if your house burned down? I would just write a check and rebuild it. And all intelligent people do it my way. I won't say all, but maybe I should say all intelligent people should do it my way. There should be way more self-insurance in life. There's a lot of waste. You're paying me by insurance for the other fellow's frauds. And there's a lot of fraud in life. And if you can afford to take the risk yourself and not fool around with claims and less than that and commissions and time, of course you're self-insured, simpler and so forth. Think of what I've saved in my life. I never... I never cared. I never cared. I think once I... But with one exception, I never cared. To his insurance on a car. And once I got rich, I stopped caring for insurance on houses. I just self-insured. It's a little bit of a surprising take for the guy who I used to share with him. That's the right way to do it. Seriously? That's a little bit of a surprising take from a guy who's a vice chairman at Berkshire, which has so many insurance companies. Well, but I'm not... I'd rather tell it the way it is and tell it in a way that helps Berkshire. I'm not going to tell it differently than I think it really is just because it's better for Berkshire. Even though it's bad for Berkshire, I want to tell you if you're going to afford to self-insure yourself and sure. Even on things like medical? Or I just think you might think you could afford these things. No, that is different. Sure pays the doctor in the hospital for a small fraction of what you pay. So that's a different kind of calculus. Everything in medicine is... The cost of a American medical care and medical insurance, it's a disgrace. If you go to Singapore, you will find that they do the whole thing better than we do, and it costs 20% of what we pay. And again, my audio was... And by the way, I have no idea of how to get from where we are to where the airport is, because all the people that are getting all that extra money fight like fierce tigers to hold on to it. And they control boards and cities and states and every other guy. So I don't know how to fix the costs in American healthcare. They're totally out of control. And... I weren't trying to fix it with Amazon and all that stuff. He failed to, everybody's failed. Everybody in America has a marvelous record failing and handling our cost of medicines. Matt McAllister writes in and I realized, he's asked a couple of questions. I didn't realize this was a repeat of send-in, but I like the questions. He said, what are some of the most important things that we need to know about Greg Able? Have you experienced examples of him also being a learning machine? And if so, could you share one? Yeah, well, Greg is just sensational at being a business leader, both as a thinker and as a doer. And he's also sensational, good at smoothly getting things done through other people. So he's a very remarkable human being and Berkshire is very lucky to have him. And he's also, it's just a tremendous learning machine. You can argue that he's just as good as Warren is learning all kinds of things. And one of the interesting things about Greg is there's some things he's better at than Warren is. And Warren knows that. And he just keeps dumping on Greg. Everything that Greg can do better, and that's a lot. And so the system at Berkshire is working pretty damn well. We're very lucky to have a 92-year-old who's a good shape of his warning and we're very lucky to have us achieve executive like Greg. Greg is very remarkable. Greg is trusted by insurance regulators, by utility regulators, and rightly so. He is trying to run all those utilities as if he were the regulator. Now how many people think that way? But it's just a smart way to think. You mean just from a show of good faith? Yeah, why not please your... Why not do it the way that you'd want it done if you were on the other side of the transaction? How can you fail if you treat other people the way you'd like to be treated yourself? It's the golden moral. Of course it works. All right, someone named Jim writes in and I asked this question because I got a lot of similar ones just in terms of investments. But this one is probably a question that a lot of people as they start to get up 65 and beyond start to wonder. He just says, would you recommend I take Social Security when I'm 67 or wait till I'm 70 when I'll receive more per month? Well, I can't make that choice for you. It depends. If you know you're going to be dead pretty soon, I go ahead and have more money to spend. You think you may live a long time. You may have a different calculus. I would say that most people who are healthy and so forth and who have a pretty good life expectancy, generally they're wise to defer the Social Security taking and take more money later. I guess it's optimistic thinking too. If you're thinking that you're going to live a long time, that's the way to play it out. Well, what do you do, Becky? Well, I'm not 65 yet, so I haven't thought about it yet. I'm waiting. My guess is I would probably work longer. I don't think you're going to need Social Security, Becky. I'm not worried about you. I think I would work longer. I'm naturally conservative. Yeah. Leping will yong, writes in, you urged the US government to ban cryptocurrencies as China has done. I have a more general question. With boom and bus cycles in different countries in history, what should a good government do and not do for economic growth? Well, what you've got to do if you want growing GDP per capita, which is what everybody should want. You've got to have most of the property in private hand, so that most of the people who are making decisions about how properties do be cared for own the property in question. That makes the whole system so efficient that GDP per capita grows. In a system where you have easy exchanges, do the currency system and so on. That's the main way of civilization getting rich, having all these exchanges and having all the property in private hands. If you like vial enlistance and I need your money, we make a transaction, we're gaining on both sides. Of course, GDP goes like crazy when you've got a bunch of people who are spending their own money and wanting their own businesses and so on. Nobody in the history of the world that I'm aware of has ever gotten from 100 gathering to modern civilization except through a system where most of the property was privately owned. A lot of freedom of exchange. By the way, I just said something that's perfectly obvious, but it hasn't really taught that way in most education. Even if you can take a course in economics and college and not know what I just said, they don't teach it exactly the same way. That would be your best suggestion. This one comes in from Matt and he says throughout your experience with Berkshire Hathaway, what are a few of the things that have surprised you most based upon some of your previous rational thoughts and ideas? Also, how have you used some of those surprises in your quest to become a better learning machine? I would say some of the things that surprised me the most was how much dies. The business world is very much like the physical world where all the animals die and the course of improving all the species so they can live in niches and so forth. All the animals die and eventually all the species die. That's the system. When I was young I didn't realize that that same system applied to what happens at capitalism and all the businesses. They're all on their way to dying as the answer so that other things can replace them and live. And it causes some remarkable deaths. Imagine having Kodak die. It was one of the great trademarks of the world. There was nobody that didn't use film. They dominated film. They knew more about the chemistry of filming than anybody else on Earth. Of course, the whole damn business went to zero and look at Xerox's one-chomb the world. It's just a pale shrinkage and nothing compared to what it once was. So practically everything dies if you beg enough time scale. When I was young enough that was just as obvious then I didn't see it for a while. Things that looked eternal and had been around for a long time I thought would likely be that way when I was old. But a lot of them disappeared. Practically everything dies in business. None of the eminence lasts forever. Think of all the great departments or think about. Long they were the most important thing in their little community. Their way ahead of everybody in furnishing credit, convenience in all seasons, you know, convenience back and forth, use the same banks of elevators and so forth, multiple floors. It looked like they were eternal. And they're basically all dying or dead. So once I understood that better, I think it made me a better investment investor I think. I mean the same can be said for managers. I've talked with Doug McMillan of Walmart who carries around in his wallet like on him. He carries around a list of the top retailers over the decades. And nobody's ever the same. Yes, we're gone. Yes, yes. Of course retailers live in terror because you can die. So I'm a guy that's a better way of doing it and you just die. Like those departments towards dead. The ones that you invested in early on, you mean? The Baltimore? Well, most of the, think of the former stores that are gone. Just chain after chain after chain and big down to that they're not weak and dead. They're gone dead. And, and have IBM have the huge position at once added in terms of utter dominance? And now it's just one of the also runs. And it's still an admirable place. I'm sure they have a lot of talent left in IBM. It doesn't help you die even though you're talented in hard working. Author Con writes in and he's a daily journal shareholder who lives in Toronto. And he says Mr. Munger, well many of us admire you and look up to you. I want to ask who were some of the people you most admired and looked up to? What was it about them that made them so special? Well, some of the best people I would argue Jim Senegal at Costco was about as well adapted for the executive care he got. By the way, he didn't go to Horton, he didn't go to the Harvard Business School. He started working at Edge 18 in a store. And he rose to BC, E.O. at Costco. And, in effect, he was a founder under a man named Saul Price. And I would argue that what he accomplished in his own lifetime was one of the most remarkable things in the whole history of business and the history of the world. Jim Senegal, in his life, he's still very much alive but he's yet to have one business throughout his whole life basically. And he just got so damn good at it. There was probably nothing he didn't understand. He was a larger small and there aren't that many Jim Senegal's. And I'll tell you something else for a job that the kind he has. Greg Abel in a way is just as good as Greg Senegal was. He has the kind of genius for the way he handles people and so forth and problems. And I can't tell you how I admire. Somebody has enough sense to kind of rudely as utilities. And so he was a regulator. He's not trying to pass on the cost because he can do it. He's trying to do it the way he'd want to done if he were the regulator instead of the executive. Of course, that's the right way to run the utility. But how many of you really run that way? So there are some admirable business people out there and I've been lucky to have quite a few of them involved in my life. The guy who ran TTI was a genius. TTI's a birchers subsidiary. A new Delhi journal. The thing I'm lucky would be if we still had our monopoly on publishing our cases or something. And we would be like TTI. Well, TTI is just smart. Some triumphs and triumphs. And it was run by a guy. He got fired and created the business. You got fired from where? In fact, the general, some defense contractor I read, which one? General Dany, maybe. I can't remember exactly. But he was a terrific guy. And he ran the business for us. He wouldn't let us raise his pay. How many people have the problem with their managers? They won't let them. They won't allow you to raise their pay. It's pretty rare. Charlie, I spoke with a friend of yours yesterday and his question that he had for you is what quality has helped you the most in life? Well, that's easy. Rationality. If you're just not crazy, you have a big advantage over 95% of the people. Most people have all kinds of crazy patches. And if you just are consistently not crazy, you get a big advantage in life. If you're patient and a gratification deferred, in addition to being not crazy, then it's practically a cinch. If you're exceptionally good at satisfying your commitment to other people, then you've just automatically improved your resources and your chances in life enormously. And it's so simple. And why don't more people do it? It's an interesting question. I don't think you can educate your children to do it automatically. That's I think if you have 10 children, you'll have some of them that are a lot better than others doing this. Is it harder with success, age, wealth to hold on to, rationality? I think it's always hard. You get better at it if you get good at it, young, keep practicing. But it's never easy. If you had that question, somebody asked, what one stock would you buy if you had to just rely on that one stock only for your soul living expenses? It weren't allowed to have any earned income at all. That didn't invest a million dollars in living on that one stock. How many people would give it an intelligent answer to that question in America? I don't think it's one of 100. I think you wouldn't even know how to begin. I think one of my favorite things that I've heard you say, and it's something I repeat often to a lot of people, is whatever you are, age and wealth makes you more so. It came up with that a while ago. What led you to that? Yes, of course. Do you have any, I guess, I guess? I think that's true that we all tend to get a little more so in every way. I thought of that when I woke up this morning and put on my trousers. I thought, I really economized in buying those trousers. Why am I economizing in my trousers or buying? But it's just so engrained that I can't stop. I'd like to circle back to a question on Daily Journal to wrap things up, Daily Journal and some of your holdings. This question comes in from Moshe Sable who says, in a previous shareholder meeting back around 2018, you spoke about BYD and said, Journal Technologies is not quite BYD, but added that by the way it might work out just like BYD. Now a few years on, do you still find Journal Technologies can turn out similar to BYD? Well, it won't be as fast as I guarantee you. And I won't be as great. I can also won't practically guarantee that. BYD is one of the most remarkable venture capital types successes in the history of the world. He was the eighth son of a peasant and an older brother that recognized his younger brother as a genius. And the older brother sacrificed himself to get this peasant son into some good engineering school. And he became an engineering professor and then an entrepreneur. And how many times you get a story like that? And imagine buying a little bankrupt auto company in China and turning it into something that this year there can sell more electrical cars than anybody else in the world. At the time when electrical cars are hot and it's a remarkable story, but again a very unusual human being, one-chump-poo. And by the way, in his case it wouldn't have happened if one-chump-poo hadn't been so unusual. And usually how? He's a goddamn genius and he's been thinking about the right things, 17 hours a day, all his life. He's a work of all like anti. He can do things that ordinary human beings can't do. Is that the favorite stock you've ever purchased, BWID or Costco? Well, I would say, yes, I have never helped do anything at Berkshire that was as good as BWID and I only did it once. Our $270,000 investment there is worth about $8 billion now or maybe nine. That's a pretty good writer or tour. Yeah, it's more than pretty good. Yeah, we don't do it all the time, we do it once in a lifetime. Now we have to add some others, because that's stupid. But I don't think hardly anything like that. We made one better investment, you know what it was. We paid an executive recruiter to get us an employee and he came up with Aussie chain. The return that Aussie has made us compared to the amount we paid the executive recruiter. That was our best investment at Berkshire. It was some paid executive recruiting firm that got to get us Aussie chain. But again, it only happened once. Now that's quite an investment too. Charlie, I just want to thank you for all your time today. All right, we're all through, I guess. And being so generous with this. And I guess our meeting is over. And we'll turn it back over to Charlie. And I'm still here to do one more with you people. We've been at this quite a few years. So my best all of you. Thank you, Charlie. Thank you, Becky. Thank you, Stephen. Thank you, Charlie. No. You
