 All right everybody welcome to 2023 everybody's well rested and ready to take on 2023. Yes, Chimau. How are you? Amazing. Okay, Saksipu. I know you don't go to Temperatures that are under 57 degrees anymore. Do you have a nice break? Did you go somewhere warm? Yes? Okay, that's a confirmation. Wow, man of so many words and freeberg. I'm over cold weather vacations Yeah, it does happen at a certain point I actually went to Florida went to the the free state of Florida. Oh really? Yes, what what what's going on in Florida at the turn of the New Year? I wonder that drew you down to The great state of Florida. We're just freeing it up in the free state of Florida Like your winter Rain man David We open source into the hands and they just go crazy We have our 2023 predictions now place of music and all that kind of stuff producer Nick at this point Let's get to it Last year we know it biggest you guys notice that every time we talk about something somewhere between Sort of two months to a year later the Wall Street Journal ends up writing a big thing piece about it Yes, so I tweeted into the group chat like last year we all talked about Sequoia and distributing public equities and yeah, how it's very fraught and difficult and then today they write this big article about how People have just burned enormous amounts of billions of dollars that they could have returned to LPs like these venture investors by not distributing It makes sense three weeks ago when we did our end of the year wrap up My big winner for 2022 were the pot shops, right citadel and today in Wall Street Journal an article lands that these guys with 56 billion of AUM Over the last two years have made almost 45 billion dollars of revenues Isn't that incredible That's what happens to Moth Usually they are these guys are just crushing and then citadel securities did like almost you know seven and a half billion of revenue I mean it's unbelievable these businesses how good they are yes, so let's get into and this is typical Tremoth if you think about journalists They're trying to get into the conversations that are occurring at the bar after the event the late-night conversation The group chats well, and that's what this podcast is. It's the exposed Backchannel right and so if you listen to this pod you got the back channel of Silicon Valley politics tech science etc So let's do our predictions in 2020 we said our Biggest political winner would be Saxony both said to Santa's Jamat says you should paying in freeberg said Putin Who do we think is our biggest political winner going forward? Who do you pick sax biggest political winner for 2023 who will be your biggest political winner for 2023? Well, I went a little bit outside the box here because I think we're gonna have gridlock in Washington So I'm not expecting a ton to be coming out of Washington over the next year My pick for biggest political winner is Asian American college applicants There are two Supreme Court decisions that the court heard on Halloween last year There was a lawsuit against Harvard and another lawsuit against UNC by a group called students for fair admissions and that they maintain that Harvard and UNC violate title six the Civil Rights Act Because Asian American applicants are far less likely to be admitted than similarly qualified applicants from other groups and The federal courts in Boston and North Carolina rejected this argument, but the Supreme Court took up the cases So they kind of went out of their way to hear this and I think that they are going to They're gonna require affirmative action I think the majority will rule to strike down these policies That really discriminate against Asian Americans and I think they're the last group in America where it seems to be okay to Discimate against and I think the Supreme Court is gonna is gonna find that a constitutional From off any dots there you have brought this up multiple times on the podcast over the last two years I have said that this was unfortunately Affirmative action when it started I think had very very good intentions and I still think that there's a place for it The problem is that these very liberal institutions Decided to play judge jury and executioner on which minorities counted in affirmative action and That's not what the intention was the intention was to look at the establishment and Their ability to get their progeny into these incredible schools even when they didn't deserve to be there and So I think this was always an issue of Classism that was disguised as racism and People who are in the upper classes of society have always had an edge You had the legacy admissions into Harvard you had people the Kushner's very famously right like the five million dollar Check from the father that got the son into the school all of this stuff. It's all it's been well Written about and whether or not those things are right isn't the point I think the point is that there are folks in emerging lower middle classes who have the potential to crush and Those kids should have a chance and you can't just decide who those kids are Based on the color of their skin and in this case what happened was some blacks were still allowed in some Hispanics were allowed in But Asian Americans broadly were discriminated and that was a really stupid outcome You cannot punish kids for willing to work their ass off And I think that that was the unfortunate outcome of what affirmative action has become by 2022 So it is gonna get repealed The reason it's gonna get repealed is that You know we have case law that very clearly states that that any institution that accepts federal funds Cannot have any form of discrimination and this is how These folks who have tried to repeal affirmative action have taken up this lawsuit and Hopefully the outcome is a more meritocratic system that also tries to create a plurality of different people from different backgrounds free burger thoughts And if not your biggest political winner for 2023 my biggest political winner for 2023 is MBS Mohammed bin Salman I think that Saudi Arabia will have The most important year in kind of the modern era in terms of their role I don't know if you guys saw this Reuters report From a few weeks ago, but there's kind of a deepening discussion about the oil you want trade in That Saudi would sell oil to China and they would get paid in one Saudi Arabia sits at the intersection of The United States Russia and China they have relationships with all three nations and in the kind of conflict and power struggle that is underway. I think that ultimately the direction of Where global currency kind of reserves will be taken and the importance of these great nations and who sits atop whom Can actually be dictated and significantly influenced by MBS this year by some of the deals and trades he might put in place and the The kind of Partnerships he might forge. I think as a result you will see him kind of rise in terms of influence not in terms of You know, hey the world has accolades for this for this guy, but I think in terms of global influence He will rocket ship to kind of the top because of this this kind of jocke and he can now do Between these three great nation states and defining, you know, what's gonna happen with the US and what's gonna happen with China and what's gonna happen with Great selection of currency reserves great selection. I mean Preliminary selection the shitty thing by the way about your selection is that Biden are explicit stance is unfortunately quite confrontational with MBS and yeah, you saw that play out in Q4 We asked them to ease up on op-ek plus to introduce Supply cuts and they did some nominal 100,000 barrel per day cut Didn't do much of anything. There was an article to your point freeberg just recently about Saudi really doubling down Ungetting the oil out of the ground and monetizing their petrochemicals So there's just gonna be a glut of supply in the market and We have the least amount of influence with Saudi Arabia than we've ever had and It seems like we could change that if we decided to but I think Biden has taken this very confrontational approach Which doesn't seem to make and remember a lot of sense their stated intent is to diversify away from oil and Into technology and other kind of emerging growth economies. That's why they funded the vision fund That's why MBS made that big kind of visit to Silicon Valley a few years ago and there is technology that they want to import into Saudi Arabia They want to have ownership in around the world and if the US is creating a barrier for them to import US tech Into Saudi or for Saudi to kind of invest in the US but China and Russia have open arms and all they want is For Saudi to start doing trades in you want it's gonna happen and I think that's where this guy has Kind of a real opportunity to shift the global economic dynamic. Say what you will about Trump He had open dialogue with North Korea China Russia MBS enemies close sure you want to be able to talk to anybody and he was able to talk to anybody now You also want to be able to say hey listen you can't dismember a journalist like Kishogi and you need to be able to have both of those ideas in your head You can't be rigid in foreign policy you have to be fluid and keep people at the table talking Chimath who is your Big political who do you predict will be the big political winner of 2023? Richimoths prediction everybody go ahead. I really like spread trades, right? Where you go long something and short another so I'd like to pair my biggest political winner with my biggest political loser for 2023 Okay, and I am going to focus on the Republican nomination and I am going to go long Nikki Haley and I am going to go short Ron DeSantis now let me Oh, yeah, you're watching you're watching you're not watching sex right now. He is ready to interject go Chimath So I think that all of this nonsense for example in the house speaker race All of the midterm results What it really speaks to are as people are getting exhausted with the lunatic fringes of both parties that's point number one and Point so that favors moderates as an emergent class and point number two is that if you look back through many many cycles of Republican and Democratic nominations It is a very negative thing to be in the lead so early going into the Iowa caucuses in January And so if you put those two things together the risk is that DeSantis decays Things emerge people attack him because he's the clear front runner and the opportunity just like it was for Trump in 16 or for Clinton or for George Bush Not Herbert Walker, but you know W is to emerge from the back and so if I think about a moderate person who can emerge from the back Who can consolidate the ranks they should probably be from the South They will have a lot of these purple compromises that Sacks mentioned in their policy program and They will have a history of winning and a history of normalcy and So I think that of all of the places where you could ever elect a women as president of the United States I think it will come from the Republicans before it comes from the Democrats I mean the Democrats are unfortunately increasingly judgmental And I think it's very difficult for a woman to emerge there But I do think that Nikki Haley has a shot so I'm gonna go long Nikki Haley and I'm gonna short-run DeSantis Okay, I like an spread trade for his prediction well done before Sacks you interject let me just do mine and because then you'll have to interject too I was looking at Biden and Trump and thinking hmm Which one of these is gonna have the big win in 2020? There are some so they're too big as I think players. I have a prediction for Trump. I think he's gonna lose 50 pounds on the ozampic Everybody loves a weight loss story. I think he is going to be indicted by Garland is he on Wait a minute. Sorry. He's on ozampic. No, I'm predicting an ozampic run and he's gonna drop 40 50 pounds Then we're gonna have a shfelt Trump get indicted by Garland and The debates and the and the and the rigamarale with DeSantis. I think he's gonna Go after DeSantis based on weight and height And then he's gonna win the nomination in 24 and we're gonna have Trump versus Biden But this is a crazy prediction here. I think we're gonna have a settlement I think he's gonna agree to not run and get the pardon. This is a crazy prediction I know But I think he loses the weight He wins the norm He gets indicted and then he gets the richer Nixon pardon global pardon for all of the shit he's done Sax you can reply now To these two crazy predictions this bread trade am I I mean this is like proof positive that everything you have to say about Trump is an active projection I mean Like ozampic I mean you're talking about yourself or Trump I strike I Lost journey has been ozampic and super good. Yes both of those things are fasting. All right. Have you sacked on any ozampic? Uh-huh. Yeah, I've tried it. Yeah, I think everybody should be looking into this if you have weight issues It's a it's a great new I will say it even more broadly I've been reading a lot about these gLP ones and I got to tell you Stattons are a clear wonder drug. Yes, okay. I think the the 50-year longitudinal data on its value is pretty unimpeachable Metformin even taken prophylactically has shown incredible benefits for Cell regeneration longevity And glucose management and the real of the reality is let's just take a step back the American diet We're all pre-diabetic. Okay, so let's just let's just not beat around the bush The way that Americans eat and our food supply and also probably in Western Europe is pre-diabetic by definition It's shit. It's trash So metformin makes a lot of sense and again, it's laundry to the data is incredible But I got to tell you the early data on these gLP ones are Unbelievable. It's extraordinary and I've heard first-hand experience I would lose half a pound a week when I would die it No, but what I'm saying is it's it's beyond that. I'm what I'm talking about is insulin response It's cardiac health and so if this data tracks like this man You just can want to put everybody on these gLP. Well, I just want to also put a disclaimer here Do your own research work with your doctors whether it's from metformin or exemptic, but I had great results on it I Recommend if you're struggling with weight loss like I did for many years You talked to your doctor about it. That said it's not a commercial for a wagovia or exemptic But I do think these things are gonna change the world. Jara Well, and they're getting better and it seems like diet people with diabetes are on them for life So if your question is like if I could do this for a year to lose weight You know, I think diabetics are on it for life. So when I made my decision again work with your doctors Not random podcast or venture capitalists for your health advice I was like well of all of these people who have diabetes are gonna on it for years unless it's non-toxic go get a Renewable scan just make sure absolutely you got So there you have it there's our predictions So I want to respond to anything else. I want to I want the sacs to react to my spread trade. Yeah So so look I think you know if you're going on a betting site I think that you could place that bet that Jamalth may pretty cheaply and probably it's like has some good upside to it So I don't criticize it as a bet. Do I think it's actually gonna happen? No, and I I think the reason Is this that if you look at what's happening right now with the speakers race? There's two Very clear wings in their public and party. There's establishment wing and then there's kind of this populist mago wing and the candidate whoever it is in 24 needs to unite those two wings And I think this is really the best argument for DeSantis is he's widely accepted by both I think Nikki Haley's problem is that she's very well regarded within the Establishment wing other Republican party, but she has no meaningful support within the populist wing And so I don't think she's capable of bringing the party together at least at this point in time She would have to prove let's call it populist Bonafide that she just doesn't have right now. So this is why I think you know DeSantis He does have frontrunner risk. You're right that people are gonna keep taking shots at him as long as he's the frontrunner But all right, let's be capable of uniting the party in a way that it desperately needs right now As we're seeing with the government carthie thing playing out Yeah, okay, let's go for our biggest losers We'll rip through this last year. I said Biden and Trump in the extremes Chimalt said the progressive laugh again the extreme sac said Pelosi Who just wrapped up her tenure and freeberg said US influence globally Was the biggest political loser Let's get our Predictions for the biggest political loser of 2023 freeberg. Who do you think will be the biggest political loser of 2023? The world wants it out freeberg. I would continue my US influence, but I am gonna shift Here's what I think is gonna happen this year my big prediction Is Based on um, I think the world has too much debt I think that the economic slowdown coupled with rising interest rates globally and a an a-dirt of Kind of asset capital inflows means that there's gonna be a lot of issues with the number of debt markets around the world particularly kind of emerging sovereign debt Just to give you guys a sense global debt is about $235 trillion in public and private You know, that's somewhere between five and 15 trillion dollars of interest payments a year Depending on what the net rate is on 96 trillion dollar global GDP And there's another trillion and a half of unfunded liabilities in the US and pensions and social security and all this other stuff I think this is the year where a lot of the debt markets start to unravel the Fragment is a entity that steps in Or a political loser. I'm gonna tell it one second. Oh, this is a political. Yeah, so the political ramifications So the political ramifications for me. I think that the um, the entity that steps in to try and support these Um, unwinding moments is the IMF and I think that no matter what the IMF does they're gonna look bad I think that the you know, it's sort of like like Jerome Powell this this past year, right? Like you raised rates too late you raised rates too quickly no matter what you do It has some adverse effect and impact. It's either inflationary or it impacts growth And so I think the IMF is gonna get a lot of heat for either acting not too soon Uh, sorry not fast enough or or acting too aggressively and causing inflation As a bunch of these markets face credit risk this year So my big bet is the IMF is gonna play a major role and we're gonna be talking a lot about the IMF later this year I think as a result the IMF will get a lot of heat and you'll end up seeing A lot of pressure and political you know, just like we blame NATO just like we blame Jerome Powell and the Fed will end up blaming the IMF for a bunch of problems uh that'll arise But the natural physics of what's going on is the world have too much debt and not enough growth to cover the debt the cost of debt That's it Okay, and the IMF will be the political kind of you know hit that'll that'll result What can you do at the point of view, but I think yeah And who do you have uh as your biggest political loser prediction for 2023 mr. David Sacks Well, I mean Kevin McCarthy may not survive the week. So let me go in a different direction I think California is my big political loser and I would say in particular the city of San Francisco both Are gonna have gigantic budget shortfalls you may remember That this is back in 2021 when we had that asset bubble California had a surplus of 76 billion And then insane and then 2022 happened and now the state is looking at a $24 billion deficit Well, if we had taken say a third of that surplus from 21 and put it in a rainy day fund We wouldn't have to worry about this deficit, but that was never done newson started handing that money out like candy to the electorate to goose his Elections re-elect numbers and to get him past the That recall remember Okay, so the state never got a fiscal outlook in order and now I think it's gonna be even worse in 2023 And San Francisco the city very similar kind of problem where It's a tax base is heavily dependent on commercial real estate, which is really suffering So you know the city of San Francisco and the state of California they've moved their tax base to To highly volatile capital gains and with a really lousy stock market I don't know how these guys gonna meet their budgets. So a lot of pain coming There'll be a lot of austerity and pain coming that's for sure and these people do not know how to manage a budget They're incompetent. So you say California freebergs says IMF Jamoth who do you think the biggest political loser for 2023 will be already gave a share of incentives, right? Okay, and I'm in alignment with you. I think to send us peaked a little too early and the forever trumpers and the in the chaos is gonna be A little too much for him to handle. Okay, now we get into whatever everybody wants business business business Biggest business winner for 20 23 who do you have Jamoth for your biggest biggest business winner of 2023? I'm gonna pick something out of my portfolio Mm-hmm. I think I'm the only non-tribule large investor in both SpaceX and relativity space Relativity space has a huge space X is clearly just crushing on all cylinders And they're really the only game in town with respect to launch capability and if you just google it you'll see that the Europeans you know have a hit or miss Capability and launch the Russians are completely unable to do launch now because of all of these sanctions The private companies in New Zealand or the United States have also had fits and starts really incapable Relativity, which is really which is now the second most highly valued space business is about to do a launch In the third week of January and the big difference between it and SpaceX, which is sort of why we did it. This is a Early YC company. I did the series A and kind of went along the whole way They have 3d printed everything and the reason why 3d printing is interesting is you take a So if you think a rocket costs five billion dollars it built by NASA Elon was able to take that to a hundred to five hundred million And if you 3d print everything you can take that cost to like five to 50 million And so it allows you to just have this repeatability and manufacturability now SpaceX also has a lot of 3d printed parts but relativity is entirely 3d printed It has a launch in three weeks At Cape Canaveral I think and we have a like a 10 billion dollar order book that gets unlocked So I don't know how to see beyond a lot of these market forecasts right now So I'd rather pick a company I'll pick something in my portfolio if the rocket does not blow up There's a 10 billion dollar order book and this company is now On a trajectory to be as valued as SpaceX and it doesn't his book times two and if it doesn't it goes to zero Freeberg go ahead and talk your book times two or three. Let's see if you can one up Jamal Which one of your investments will be the biggest business winner of 2023 freeberg? I'm not an investor my big bed is open AI It's just way too obvious to be anything else this year as you guys know there are dozens of startups that are being started right now based on open AI's demonstration of dolly and chat GPT Yes, I think we're seeing this in the enterprise and consumer markets I think open AI will become to some degree maybe they could be there's many paths they could take the AWS providing tooling and infrastructure to all these startups that are building applications for consumers and and business users Or they will end up doing a massive deal with Microsoft. I think it's inevitable. They're going to get a billion dollar plus investment this year They could power you know AI driven Bing search and voice driven search They could build their own products and their own tools and they're becoming great investors They invested in descript which is a product company we use here for our podcast which is an incredible product And I think that sam opman is a very smart and insured investor as well So for a lot of reasons. I think open AI could Hmm end up having an amazing year this year and a lot of different paths they could walk and we're going to come out of this year and say they're one of the top tech companies in the valley Okay Saks open AI has of course increased your ability to talk to other humans So you're seeing a lot of big wins there. I know He's how do I talk to a child about their college hopes it aspirations No, no, no, how do I talk to a child about their day? Literally is hello hello progeny of mine. How are you fairing today in this complicated write me a script of talking to a 12 year old about their hopes and dreams Say I'm using GPT for talking points on different topics Yeah, well, oh, okay We should have done the GPT predictions that you can make it into these categories Saks as a person on the spectrum Yeah, how delightful is this chat GPT and you know your treatment of your condition. It's great Let me let me get to my answer here So my answer for the big business winner of the year is America's natural gas industry Mm-hmm, and I have to admit this is an aspect of the Ukraine war that I didn't fully appreciate until I read This New York Times article the other day about how natural gas prices In Europe have now fallen to the level they're at before the war and everyone thought that there'd be this huge shortage And then when I'm able to heat their homes. Well, what happened the the answer is that Europe completely cut off their dependence on Russian gas And in fact the Nord Stream pipelines were blown up so physically they separated but then on top of it They basically started importing liquefied natural gas from the US and here's the key paragraph in this article from the New York Times is that Europe rapidly built terminals to receive liquefied gas sweeping away many of the usual bureaucratic obstacles and Environmental objections. So in other words What what normally would have taken decades to get approvals now was all put on a fast track and Europe is now completely dependent on American natural gas and I think this is Again, the thing maybe I underestimated the cold hard American interest in this war is to basically turn Europe into a vessel of America's natural gas industry Previously they were about to be dependent on Russia and Nord Stream was going to make that situation permanent We've you know somebody blew up Nord Stream now. They're dependent on American LNG They're going to pay higher prices for that But it's it's been a pretty impressive win for the American natural gas industry and I think Biden Has really pulled a 180 here because you remember when he first came into office he canceled Keystone he canceled drilling He was very tough on the oil and gas industry. I think after he then delivered the hundreds of billions for the climate Special interest in the inflation reduction act now he is taking care of the oil and gas industry. I love it Here we got a 90 slide Biden Yeah, not and so what you're saying is Biden dynamically change course based on inputs like a great leader would okay Well done. Well, I don't I don't listen I know listen I think Biden has done something politically smart here. There's no question about it. I am giving him Credit does it mean that this war was worth it. No, I don't I don't think we should be engaging in oil wars Like we did in the released We are great. So I'm not justifying this war But I am saying that there is a cold hard American interest Undergirding the our position, which is it's about LNG. It's not it's not just about moral platitudes Yeah, I mean, let's start to 2023 vassal and undergirding Ha My biggest predictions I'm working backwards from two here. I think the door dashes air bnb's ubers Etsis of the world who need entrepreneurs the need workers. They need supply. They've always been supply constrained As unemployment becomes let's call it what it is sticky You're going to see a lot more people participating in gig platforms or entrepreneurial platforms that enable them to make money So I think they will be huge beneficiaries especially if they continue to lay off employees like door dash and air being Be did to right size their businesses but my first one My number one is laid off tech workers I think laid off tech workers who Get together in groups of two three or four Developers product managers people who actually build stuff and start companies together are going to become Extremely successful and they're going to make incredible lemonade From these lemons of these big tech way off. So I think the startup space is again And these laid off tech workers who choose to take control of the destiny and starts companies are going to be the true big winners If you do it do it with two or three friends because you're going to need developers You're going to need those those talented people in the startups that have three founders get funded faster than the ones with one So those are my two winners all right. Oh, yeah, and last year our biggest business winners were Chimazet SMB's sacks that rise to the rest freeberg set stripe and I said Disney millennials in Gen Z Let's go on to biggest business loser for 2023 freeberg Who do you think will be the biggest business loser in 23 this year in fact Okay, so my biggest loser is the general category of capital intensive series B3D growth businesses in the startup landscape private companies Um as you guys know there's been a big shift in capital allocation A lot of the folks who were writing big checks into growth rounds Are retreating back to writing smaller checks and seed and a rounds They don't want to write the 20 million dollar series B. They want to write the five million dollar seed and a round Uh, no one wants to kind of follow the valuation No one wants to set the valuation for these growth businesses Particularly if after this round you know you need another big round of capital And no one sure if someone's going to be waiting on the other end As a result we're seeing tons of these businesses run into capital infusion walls They can't pivot I think we'll see what we saw in the dot com bubble where 99 and a half percent of these companies actually die The half percent that winner are going to emerge as the next hundred billion dollar enterprises the Googles and the Amazon's of the world So there will be light at the end of the tunnel for the winners But generally there are hundreds of companies in hardware in sin bio in biotech in high growth Enterprise software that require significant sales investment expense a lot of these businesses where the capital intensive nature of the business Just doesn't have the market for it right now and their and and investors are all retreating and they're going to be selective So that that's where I think there's going to be more capital intensive Inflagan by the way seed seed an a investing hot as a button Uh, deep chest kiss that's what that yeah, that's it Okay, sacks biggest business loser for 2023 well, I just by the way a hundred percent agree with what freeberg said But my biggest bluser for business in 23 is the consumer I just don't understand how the consumer isn't going to finally tap out in this economy I mean they they have a mountain of personal debt credit card debts at all time highs I think the average credit card rate hit 19.6 percent last week and it's expected to rise even further Uh, the mortgage rates are above 7 percent now so forget about trying to buy a new home or Sell your home and your stock portfolio is down to and now layoffs are starting to pile up So I just don't understand how we're going to avoid a recession and you saw you know cash car You saying that right the fed's gonna keep raising 5.4 percent his prediction You know, I don't understand how if rates are at 5.5 percent that doesn't finally break the back of this economy And we go into recession Do you think sacks that the economy is actually broken right now We just don't have the data because the data lag 60 days in most people's minds because it does feel like the consumer is just And real estate has just broken at this very moment. It seems like I mean the pain is very unequal right But in the tech industry we've been in a recession for a year I mean like the gross stocks are down 80 percent with freeberg said is true No one's going to fund these you know high-burning companies There's an enormous amount of retooling that has to happen. Look. I think the recession is here is just very unequally Distributed distributed exactly. Yeah. Well, I mean if you look at it Uh, buy now pay later. That's a category starting to break credit card debt as you're saying hitting you know, uh, big um A bad records in terms of how much we love spending also people's um Savings are going down. So the consumers back has been broken I think we're just going to feel it in the in the first and second quarter Chimath Who's your biggest business loser prediction for 2023 the world wants to know? Let me just build on What freeberg and sacks said for a second before I give you my pick sure I night this is the conversation you and I had when we just got on guys. What I was telling jcal is at the end of q4 I did five deals And four were pro rata's one was a new deal and They were all clean markups. So the four deals that other people put money into And I was looking at them and I was trying to figure out okay, what differentiates these things and freeberg to your point These were super clean startups with very clean cap tables that had clear progress and then conversely I had seven converts showed to me For companies whose valuations were anywhere between three and I would say 12 billion And I did none of them and not only did I do none of them nobody else did any of them And the problem was the real market clearing price was 80 to 90 percent down And so I was like what is going on here? So freeberg to your point I don't even think it's just cash intensive startups I think it's like all growth companies are in a really bad place I thought that this growth stuff would get sorted out in two to three months and now I'm worried it's two to three years I think it's toxic toxic here's the definition to moth What what I think has happened and where I think the cutoff is Is when the value eight the implied market valuation of the company based on where public concert trading Is less than the total capital preference in the company the total preferred stock Wow so many companies now that raised 400 million a two billion valuation But the company is actually worth 300 million now based on public market comps So they're worth less than their preference stack So how do you sort through that? That's the investment capital No, this is why I think all these converts are getting done That's where the rubber meets the road on all these deals Yeah, that's right Who does the convert benefit the convert benefits the VCs Who want to maintain The illusory valuation that they had before They do that they do that to assuage the limited partner who gave the money that the marks aren't as bad as they thought But the people that really get screwed as Jason said are the common shareholders because eventually those converts deals that do get done Those people will end up owning the company the cap table gets completely flushed and reset And the employees get wiped out Yeah, and then you got our basically take all the employees who were there previously who now hate the founder And you got to start all work and give everybody all the they're wiped The people to do all the work get fucked and the people do none of the work And who just want to maintain this shell game gets to basically live another day Basically people are investing as you gave in the example earlier like if it's a three billion dollar company But it's actually worth 750 people instead of taking the valuation from three billion to seven fifty We'll say okay buy one share at the three billion dollar price and we'll give you three or four shares for free or for a penny warrants They're called typically or you know just different ways to structure this And then all of a sudden nobody knows the actual denominator They may own them ten thousand shares, but they don't know how many shares are actually issued because the warrants are not on the cap table They're in some side document in a folder in a lawyer or CFO's office So let me let me tell you my biggest business loser. Yes, please I think that The biggest potential business loser this year is Google search As measured by your profitability and engagement I think it's easier for me to see where the The usage comes from as opposed to picking open AI or chat GPT In terms of where the usage goes to and the reason is because I think a lot of people don't still fully understand how Machine learning and AI work, but just 30 second primer There's two big buckets of work. There's what's called learning Which is how you learn how to make predictions And then there's what's called inference which is when you actually type something into the search box you get the answer The thing with learning and what chat GPT is showing is that they have learned by crawling the entirety of the web There are five or six other organizations that are capable of crawling the entire web In terms of cost in terms of compute in terms of the quality of the transformers and the quality of the AI And so I find it easier to predict The decay in the quality of Google search as that much better than everybody else Then I find it is to predict who will win because I think that with enough time and money oracle Microsoft Google The Chinese internet companies can all compete Facebook and so I think that you'll converge on the same training Which will lead to the same inference and so I think consumers end up getting confused and will end up being able to get High quality search results from many places versus today You know, you wouldn't only think that Google is the only game in town quite honestly for most people So I think that's the test that you know Google could lose 10 or 15% of usage to all these other sites And that may not make any of those sites that relevant But it'll have a material measurable impact to Google and Google's fantastic prediction And I think you know, chat GPT of these other ones are going to have a very interesting marketing Attack that they can do on Google is why search when you can get an answer right? Hey, we'll just give you the answer. You don't have to search I had so many losers that I went through here I'm just gonna run backwards to them number five. I thought founders refused to downsize in 2022 Could be big losers in 2023 obviously have five in the rest of us are just I just got to tell you my thought process I just don't want to have a longer your thought process. I thought VC funds founded in 2020 Then I thought crypto because Gary Gensers says it's all stock then I went with you Number four Google my god. They got so many headwinds against them with the shachi pt. But I wound up on Why color workers with no hard skills Twitter going down to I think you know, Elon said a couple of hundred people is all you need to run Twitter And I think he said he has two thousand employees or something like that. He has shown everybody You know, hey listen these more can be done with less or these things are overstaffed in a massive way I think white collar workers now The idea that you're gonna have four offers and you're gonna be able to play them off each other is over When we take the leads your say surplus elites sure white collar workers aka surplus elites people are actually you know our mid managers who don't Who don't actually code or don't actually build a product or sell a product don't actually do real work As I think many people would frame it in the managerial class or the CEO class Man, they're gonna have a hard time and this week Andy Amazon Andy cut 18,000 white collar workers not the blue collar the white collar workers in amazon That was a big turning point and Benny off You know, he's ohana. He is mahalo. He is a loha He does not like to lay people off. He considers Salesforce or family he laid off eight thousand. I predicted that yeah, and I mean that is to me I mean the reason is pretty simple right there gross slowed down by two thirds of the most recent quarter But they're still spending the same amount of sales and marketing so when that happens your cac payback Explodes right you go from three years payback to like ten years So they have to cut costs in order to rationalize your uniconomics So and now it it cascades right because all of sales forces vendors are gonna be getting less money from sales force Because they're tightening their belts So then those companies are gonna have to cut and the cycle just keeps going and going Right and everybody tightens their belts at the same time Freys is the economy aka recession and and and possibly where so that my was just for pussy So that's a nice little quartet In 2022 just so you know I picked crypto freeberg also picked crypto chamasad visa mastercard and sac said asks classes that benefit from government Dums And and liquidity yeah, all right. Let's go to biggest business deal of 2023 is a prediction What do we think could be the biggest business easy easy? This one is okay? Chama go let's go right here. Okay, Chama quickly starlink will go public. Oh spacex will cut and paste the cap table And we will take them yum yum it will be yummy and delicious and my prediction is that the starlink valuation Will be at least half of space x's current private mark 75 billy just for five billion it will be phenomenal and I think the reason why is that I think In order for you on to have complete financial flexibility and do what he needs to do and you know He talked about this on our pod about the difficulties and the dangers of margin loans and all of that stuff Yes, he's gonna create breathing room for himself. Oh This is the simplest and most obvious way from to do it. It'll give him a ton of more dry powder sure, so I think that this is An obvious outcome in 2020 they already have a million subscribers in there better than nothing beta as they call it I have two of them. I think This is a great great I was the first one to get it for for the global 7500 So okay, I got it for yeah, haha, so yeah, similar So uh, they're like lightning your house in the same size. Yeah, exactly. So there you go There is a point here people are underestimating the tam I think of this product The tam is not existing broadband connections. It's second connections. It's connections where connections didn't exist It's just you know the best in class the best in class broadband connection for a plane is called kabend And it costs 500 grand a year That's ridiculous and you can replace it for you know a tenth of the cost and starlink on a plane is dramatically better by directionally So I think starlink is gonna go public and I think it's gonna be here It's gonna be the best chance that we have of opening up the capital markets in 2023 There's another way of saying people who own private jets if they are flying 250 hours a year which will probably be a reasonable number To 300 hours a year they're paying two thousand dollars an hour for their internet service. That is bonkers. Okay, sacks Who is your big deal biggest business deal prediction for twenty two Biggest business deals twenty three prediction is There will be a deal between Putin and G And they met by satellite late last week to discuss ways to further help each other in 2023 Putin characterizes it as a no limits partnership. You may remember that the two of them inked a hundred and seventy five billion dollar gas deal in early February last year That was three weeks before Putin invaded Ukraine. I think now Russia is even more dependent on China We've really driven Russia into China's arms And I think there will be a big deal not just on energy but on agricultural products mineral products and rare earth minerals that You know, it's moth likes to talk about I think there could be a trillion dollar deal Between Russian China this year if I was gonna go out in the live make prediction Okay, so there is your 2023 prediction of the biggest deal the Legion of dictators Forman I do think it's it is like uh, you know Yeah, that the access of evil. This is more Legion of dictators like hey, let's do business together Freeberg You got a prediction for the biggest business deal of 2023. This is really going out on limb here. I'll do too real quick The first was the similar to what saks said, but it's Kind of echoing what I said earlier, which is the petro-yuan trade. I think that's the Saudi China trade if this happens and oil is sold in yuan It marks the beginning of I think um the end of the Assumption that the US dollar is the global reserve and the risk-free currency In reserve for the world. So I think the petro you want trade if you guys um here's the Reuters article covering jeez visit to Saudi Arabia last month first second we get December Once this gets inked and signed it's a real shift globally. I think the other one that I'm that I'm gonna point out that I think is A bit of a out of left field one maybe and maybe I'm just gonna look like a total idiot at the end of the year But do a wild card. Yeah, this is my wild card. So my wild card is I think apple ends up buying something completely out of the ordinary And here's why I think apples core business. They're facing significant pressure with respect to the relationship Uh and ties to China as you guys may have seen last week Fox con announced that they're actually going Uh further downstream in terms of their production model and they're trying to diversify away from being kind of this sole service provider to apple Apple as you know is under such pressure to get out of China Politically that they've started to try and invigorate activity in Vietnam and elsewhere So a lot of pressure on their relationship with their low cost producer and low cost production partner They're also under a lot of political pressure because of the app store revenues you guys know this 30% app store They have to pay take a lot of people are calling it monopolistic and antitrust is getting involved so they're feeling that pressure There's also the pressure with respect to the You know waning consumer demand for high-end electronics Samsung last yesterday or last week and that or yesterday I think announced significant declines in consumer demand for electronics or therefore cast as such that has to impact apple Uh as well so when you put all of this together right there They're they're they're being pressured to get out of their low cost manufacturing center They're being pressured to stop making money on the app store. They're being pressured Because the demand may be waning They have to do something big to kind of diversify the business So I think they might end up doing something like buying a real content company Maybe they do something like buy a Disney maybe they do something like buy an automotive company like uh fiat Chrysler I think there are a number of these kind of like what may seem today outrageous deals That apple might end up kind of being pressured into doing so that they can get ahead of their forecast of the impact that all these pressures are going to have on their core business And so I think this is something interesting to kind of think may happen this year I certainly have no insight or intel on on anything or I could be completely wrong on this one But it feels like they've got to do something this year. I mean I'm gonna sort of keep that business growing I think this is I think you I love your wild card because the MBS China trade And that relationship sure Legion of dictators, but this one is really good. It's hard to buy Disney monopolistic issues, but buying a car company pretty easy Because that's a fragmented market. I love this prediction I mean now with Tesla with this depressed stock price apple can make a run a Tesla they have they can almost buy it with cash Let alone BMW Volvo one of those brands. They could buy easily What a great prediction for me The prediction is Amazon's three-legged stool grows into a sturdy chair chair with a fourth pillar For those folks who are not familiar with how Amazon has built their businesses. There are three Pillars in their stool e-commerce obviously when you buy stuff prime memberships, which is kind of consider a separate revenue stream And of course AWS cloud computing. I think the fourth is going to be this continuation of following the health stream Not advertising because that's not a consumer-based product. That's just a way they make money Health is going to be a big one for them They obviously acquired one medical which was a small purchase I think they're going to buy Roman hymns They're going to buy peloton they could buy a whoop and they're going to go all in on health and you know that three-legged stool becomes a very sturdy chair And my runner-up is tiktok is going to divest under duress I think that it's going to have to go public and the Chinese are going to Divest their interest in it and just take their chips Because they're going to be faced with the existential threat during the political debates over the next two years there will be unanimous support from Democrats and Republicans to get tiktok out of the US therefore they divest Can I just test that with you guys because we've talked about this a lot that hey, we're going to ban tiktok how many of your Friends kids or your kids do you guys know spend hours a week on tiktok? It's a lot 90% how do you get over the political mountain of trying to ban tiktok if you try and ban tiktok Whoever raises their hand and says we should ban tiktok and actually gets it done They're out of office There is going to be so much pressure and backlash because people are hooked and love that app and use it all the time To take that away from people will feel like this kind of young kids that don't have phones actually yet Everything that tiktok has on YouTube shorts So I don't think tiktok is that important because it it is not actually There is no sticky network effect inside that app So there isn't usage that's dependent on people you know or a graph that you build It's a lot of passively consumed content and so you know you're you're getting pushed a lot of Al the algorithmically defined content you can do that on YouTube And so I actually don't think it's that meaningfully important if tiktok goes away. I think the content creator states It's harder for them to build a business on YouTube shorts, but if you look at the And measure the density of content inside tiktok it exists almost one to one on YouTube Mm-hmm. That's interesting. It's an interesting much. You think you think you think it'll you think it'll be okay If we if we cancel tiktok in the US and we say that's it you can't have taken everybody worse to YouTube and Instagram It'll be disruptive, but people will just go to YouTube and Instagram. It's not that big a deal In fact a lot of the my favorites if there was a network effect inside there Then I think people would have a reason to complain to somebody whether it's your representative or Whether it's somebody else to say hey, don't do this. This would have a Deleterious impact on my quality of life or my quality of experience and you could make that clear claim on Instagram Facebook, you know Google YouTube But tiktok is is much more brittle that way and that's why They need to get public sooner and monetize this bloody thing because I think that it's very easy actually To deconstruct tiktok's value into these other places I can tell you my favorite tiktok is chefs reactions and I consume him now in Instagram because he posts We just copies one to the other and so chefs reactions is a great example where he actually got banned by tiktok And then diversified on his own and now what he does is he publishes across multiple streams And if you look at all the big creators They all do that because it makes no sense to actually give the power to any one of these things. Why have a dependency? Why have a dependency? All right, let's keep the trains moving Most contrarian belief. This is the Peter Tiel award your chess partner sacks Who's winning in 2022 and chess how many chess games do you have going with Peter Tiel right now? And who's higher rated you demolished me with your queens gambit I played one game and I killed in seven moves I'm ranked at 800 900 right now sacks is at 1800 you just walloped me who's higher rated You accepted the queens gambit well, you know, I just I don't even know what it was. I was like what opening is this you're like Queens gambit your dead You don't want to accept the queens gambit No, you're very pleasant game for white. I'm gonna go on the limiter, you know and risk being wrong My my prediction or most contrarian belief is that the bromance between Biden and Zelensky comes to an end at some point in 2023 and Let me state that the part that I think is a conventional wisdom and everyone agrees with which is there's gonna be a Massive Ukrainian counter-offensive in the spring and I think that could go one of two ways either It could make limited gains basically the Russians fight them to a stalemate or it could be successful and They could basically push the Russians back to the February 23rd lines and then make a play for Kermia I predict that in either one of those circumstances Zelensky's interests and Biden's interest will start to diverge. So in the case of a stalemate Which I think is probably 50 50 here Biden's got a Starting into election mode for 2024 and I think we're saying they were gonna be in a recession So I think that if there's a stalemate I think Biden's gonna tell Zelensky wrap this thing up. It's time to negotiate We need to get this over with by the same token if the counteroffensive successful I think that the administration hopefully cooler heads will prevail and not let them take Kermia That's basically what they're gunning for is they not only want to get back to the February 23rd lines They want to go all the way back to the 2014 lines of retaken Kermia. I think that's extremely dangerous I think that could precipitate a nuclear war and I think that the cooler heads the administration will tell Zelensky to stand down And that's the right time to make it deal. So I think in either one of these scenarios I think you will start to see a divergence between the Ukrainian and the American interests and that could create a rift and I think no one's really predicting that I think this is great. This is kind of what I thought the plan all along was which was to deplete Putin of resources distract him and then get the west off of his oil and and and try to do regime change But do it by bleeding him. This would be a proof positive of that strategy Which is bleed him to the end and then Sells the linsky out. I think that's actually I know that I know it's cynical But I think that's what we're doing. I think Ukraine is a tool to deplete Putin and then maybe get to regime change I'm a cynical as it gets with this schemoff Which are most contrary in belief of 2023? I will go and pick that inflation which people expect to fall off a cliff Doesn't fall off a cliff as fast or as meaningfully as people want and so I will explain inflation as Three different chapters and we've seen the first two chapters play out So 2021 chapter one was all about energy inflation and you know We all talked about having almost ten dollar gas at the pump and what does it mean for everybody and It caused that initial spike in inflation and then we had it come off and sacks called this he said you know We're gonna have this sort of double hump and 2022 was really the story of goods inflation right all these prices and all of these things Went up because the input costs went up and we all had to bear the implications of that But then that started to ebb Now if you looked at the tail end of 2022 what I found super interesting was the number of articles I saw About wage inflation whether that was Biden using an 1800s error law to prevent a railroad strike The number of states that increased minimum wage the Trend around unionization So in general my thought is that the pendulum is swinging very Markedly away from capital and towards labor and as the labor participation rate stays low and continues to go down And also it's compounded by an unemployment rate that may go up right people are it's gonna be harder and harder to get people to do The work you need at the company you have Unless you pay them more and if that gets exaggerated Then inflation will stay where it is. It won't be as muted and it won't fall off a cliff as people want to be persistent That's my big contrarian got it wager for this year is that we that is quite Concert we see wage inflation that keeps inflation not going down as much as people want This is contrarian because everybody's saying hey It's over the consumers back has been broken the credit card debt is high And everybody's being laid off Yadiyah yadiyah there for goods and services There'll be more supply than demand and the prices will lower very contrarian free break. Do you have a contrarian belief for 2023? I think my it follows my earlier points about the Saudi China-Russia Russia trade this year exiting 2023 It may be the case that you know there's historically been this belief and this continuing belief that the US dollar will always be the de facto global reserve currency And the current mantra is that it's better than the rest everyone else is worse off than the US western Europe is in trouble Japan is in trouble China is in trouble everyone's in trouble, but if there is a coalition An economic coalition a scaled economic coalition That starts to shift the balance of power a little bit and the US meanwhile is taking on extraordinary debt load Thening 1.7 trillion dollars in an omnibus bill You know has this massive unfunded social security problem coming down the pipe and are trying to manage multiple funded conflicts around the world It could be that the US dollar coming out of 2023 starts to trade more like a risk asset and less like a risk-free asset And so I think that that's my big contrarium that is that maybe this year marks the beginning of the end of the US dollar as the kind of global de facto reserve currency Based on some of these big trades that I talked about happening Unable to go that could be my my big kind of contrarium perfectly said That's your contrarium bet the access the legion of dictators the ambiasis etc They become they form a new global currency. Yeah, my term not you're not calling it Yeah, I wouldn't say a legion of dictators and I wouldn't say form and you global currency, but I do think that The fact that that large economic Trading models start to be done in non-dollar denominated form Got it. You know weekends the uh the kind of reserve status of the dollar to some degree not fully right? It doesn't happen in a binary way And then the dollar starts to trade more like a risk asset like other currencies do to some degree not fully so maybe We start to see that shift once again. I take the exact opposite of your contrarium belief I believe American exceptionalism continues to soar as Russia China Saudi Arabia to a lesser extent continue to self sabotage themselves with insane wars like Putin has done or cutting off The heads of entrepreneurs in China figuratively. I'm saying here Uh, I think you cannot have exceptionalism without entrepreneurs without people having freedom And I think that means American exceptionalism based on freedom Is going to continue and the legion of dictators. I believe are gonna stab each other in the back before they change the world or move the currency Can't trust them. They'll they'll snip at each other and all those self sabotage I think that America is really feeling its weedies right now I think that American power is immense. I think that the superiority of our weapons in Ukraine has been one of the big surprises of the war Let's go palmalucky I don't see the world in the simplistic Good guys versus bad guys frame that Jacob does however America is on turbo right now and yes, it is true that the bricks would love to get off of The dollar because we are now using the dollar and the financial system has swift as a as a geopolitical tool And a weapon and they would very much like to be off of our Dependence and our currency, but I don't think there are anywhere close to be able to do that yet and Like I said, America is on turbo right now Now I will one thing one thing I want to mention this statistic came out White House correspondent named Jennifer Jacobs Just reported that the US has agreed to send Bradley Armored vehicles basically our best tanks to Ukraine I mean previously US officials had bought it sending armored vehicles saying heavier weapons would be too difficult For Ukraine to operate and maintain but allies are moving to provide such weapons So we keep providing the Ukrainians with more and more sophisticated weapons More and more support like I said this is leading up to a huge Ukrainian counteroffensive in the spring And I really don't know what's going to happen at that point I do think that the Russians will escalate I don't think they can afford to lose this war They view it as existential and I like I said I hope cooler heads will prevail and if the Ukrainians are successful at breaking through I hope that the Biden administration will shut this down before they try to retake Crimea because You know, we've discussed this before I think the Russians confronted with a choice between a total defeat That includes losing Crimea and their naval base at Sevastopol and sees the Ukrainian flag flying over If that's a choice between that or potentially using a tactical nuke Maybe at the mouth of the Crimea peninsula as a firewall I think they could choose the nuke option. So it's a very dangerous situation and You know very very dynamic. There's a lot of possibilities. All right. Let's go on to best performing asset of 2023 I'm going with seas stage investing again I don't think people want to get into these toxic cap tables at the late stage just from off pointed out So I go with seed stage and you know enough to series a the people brave enough to play spets The founders brave enough to start companies. I believe it's the best performing asset classic 2020 three trimothu. Do you got? I think that there's still a lot of uncertainty in the world and in the markets and so I'm generally concerned that there's a lot of chop And so I pick something that's pretty conservative But I would have a combination of cash and the front end of the yield curve. So T-bills all the way up to two-year bonds So you can generate four and a half probably by the end of this year 5% pretty safely owning this stuff while you wait for things to become more certain and The way that I think about it is that I would rather miss the first 10 or 15% of a rally Once we're really done this stuff then try to over correct and try to pick a bottom just because I think that you could lose a lot of money. So I think the goal for this year is to stay resilient and in the game and so owning having a bunch of cash on the sidelines ready to pound it in Meanwhile a portion of it collecting 5% is not such a bad thing while you wait for the bottom Fantastic. Yeah, my answer was actually very very similar which is if cash car is right that rates are going to 5.4% in q1 Why wouldn't you just put all your money in short-term T-bills you earn 5 5 and a half percent risk-free? Like set it and forget it And that's why capital flows are moving hugely right now from equities into bonds Especially for going to a recession, which is inherently deflationary What do you got freeberg? Froming asset class right right? One of the things so I think It's inevitable that we continue to have significant infrastructure spending from both the stimulus and security point of view So you know, we kind of want to continue to stimulate the economy and support growth We want to continue to create jobs and support this transition in the risk if the recession predictions Play out true in the job market does lose it. It's very tight right now Um, there's going to be even more of an impetus to continue to do infrastructure investment But I think there's also these big economic transitions happening underway right now with pharmaceuticals With semiconductors with energy There's a lot that we've talked about where there's a security problem and a redundancy problem And so you know, there are a couple of ways to kind of play this infrastructure spending pieces in each of those areas I've kind of highlighted four of them one is in semiconductor capital equipment So K like 10 core applied materials that that that range of businesses that provide and sell the equipment into the the fabs and the and the organizations that build semiconductor manufacturing Facilities the second is kind of an oil and gas services so similar to what sex said earlier Schlumberger Baker Hughes that class of businesses I think benefit In this in this environment and this is independent of kind of economic Condition certainly because these are big multi-year spending projects The third is in the equipment to support them. So deer and caterpillar and then the fourth I think is an important one. I'll talk about this in a minute with respect to my biggest Kind of anticipated thing for next year, which is in pharmaceutical infrastructure So thermo fisher and there's some company and others like them Uh, because there's a lot of build out happening to support these big transitions happening in the modalities that are being used uh in pharmaceutical drugs and diagnostics And then I think that uh, there's also a couple of these businesses that are diversified like daneter honey well thermo fishers a good example that play across multiple of these Uh, these opportunities so those are those are all great businesses to own and you don't need to worry about You know, they're they're growing cash flow positive dividend paying companies and you don't need to worry about You know, are am I getting 5% or 5.5% based on the equity price this year? These are long-range businesses that are building real value growing their top line And compounding value from within and then they're requiring a lot of smaller businesses very cheap I'll say what it's an important trend I've seen across these companies daneter honey well thermo fisher. They buy small companies They pay very little and they immediately get massive Return on invested capital like they're in the high teens So why get 5% on tea bills when you can get high teens ROIC Uh on the management teams running these incredible platforms. So that's where I'm most excited for this year Okay, now let's move on that was like a mad that was like my mad my mad money segment I've never done the mad money segment before but there you guys go worst performing asset I went with energy because not that I think it's not important But I just feels like it everybody rushed into it in 2022 So it feels like it's overheated and if we are in a recession people might lower consumption uh in terms of energy and uh be looking for cheaper alternatives So it could be overheated. So I went with energy Chimath, worst performing asset you got one? I think that if we've learned anything from the last three years You have to separate the valuation of a company And how it performs in the stock market with its value in society. So for example if you look at zoom Zooms valuation has cratered but its value in society has probably continued to go up It's still a massively relied upon tool The point is that markets do not give you credit for the value in society They will give you credit when you are about to over earn But then they'll pull it all back when they think that you're going to under earn. So In that lens, I think that tech will have a tough year I think energy will have a really shit year And probably the biggest asset class that is going to get pressured is going to be junk debt And the reason is a bunch of these variable rate loans When rates are at 5 and 6% that all of a sudden are like 11 12 13 14% coupons a bunch of companies will have trouble meeting their debt obligations and We'll have to restructure the debt or we'll have to file so tech energy and set for 2023 So some category of what Chimath just said I think office towers in San Francisco are that is some serious toxic debt 27% vacancy rates and growing as Lisa's role I think that a lot of these buildings maybe virtually all of the San Francisco downtown is going to be owned by the banks soon Because no one can treat their... Merchallable real estate in San Francisco That's practically the office towers Specifically the office towers because no one wants to be in those skyscraper buildings South of the market you know mired in homelessness So yeah, I mean I think that a lot of these buildings are going to be owned by the banks There's be some major fire sales remember this is the hottest commercial real estate market in the country A few years ago and now it's the worst Look what happened to be read what do you think about that crazy thing that happened with the blackstone read? I mean that's nuts You know what's going on? Yeah, blackstone has a product called be read. It's like a $70 billion exchange traded fund effectively And what it is is the ability for individual investors to own access to blackstones, you know commercial real estate portfolio And they had such a massive amount of redemptions that they had to close redemptions at the end of q4 And they were worried that the redemptions were going to continue to go up These are individual investors who basically sees the writing on the wall as David said and wants their money out And so they went to the University of California pension system And they essentially got a huge infusion of capital. I think it was about $4 billion Where they guaranteed 11.5% interest to these guys for the $4 billion And they also posted a billion dollars of their own equity in in the actual read to backstop it. So What does it show you? I think what sacks is saying is really right. It's it may not just be in San Francisco But you know with all of these people either getting laid off with all of these people now working remotely We may finally start to see the beginning of the reckoning in commercial real estate Which has been an unbelievably performant asset class up until right about now And and on top of that if to factor in these much higher rates And so these building owners if they financed it which they invariably have always financed They have huge Variable rate payments that are due on these buildings the rent rolls are lower Even people like Twitter as you're refusing to pay the rent So you have to take them to court so it it elongates when they have to pay And so you could miss a bunch of Rent payments and all of a sudden the banks could just go crazy and take ownership of these things Okay Do you have a worse performing asset class for 2023 prediction Sultan of science queen of Kenwa David Freiber It's it's really simple. I've mentioned it before it's consumer credit We assume that raising rising rates and inflation would Tape her down consumer Demand meaning consumers buying goods and stuff and that certainly hasn't happened. I I'm in Vegas right now I was in the car yesterday in the driver grew up in Vegas. He's like In all the I've lived my whole life in Vegas. He's like I've never seen a December like we just had It was packed the entire month. He's like normally in Vegas It's dead up until Christmas and the New Year's people come in for town But it's normally dead you like I've never seen such a busy month And I think we see this in the numbers consumers are still spending like it's 2021 They're still spending like interest rates or zero as we talked about Consumer credit is skyrocketing wall rates are skyrocketing And so I think we're going to run into a real wall with respect to consumer credit in All right, sometime this year and you're going to see as you guys know it's such a complicated Interwoven market of assets that the way that this this can be traded There's a lot of different ways to trade it, but I think it's going to be In general consumers are not going to be able to meet their debt obligations and it's going to be Could be mortgages could be credit card debt defaults are coming Yeah, the markets the market has priced in a bunch of this stuff obviously companies like a firm and you know the the What are they called by now pay later companies? But you had a card companies mortgages There's a lot of assets that you can start to kind of pick apart Where do you think this unravels first? What gets hit hardest? What's underpriced and overpriced? Probably a lot of good pear trading to do as Jamal kind of loves to talk about With respect to which of these are more likely or less likely to be sensitive to this dynamic But there's I think it's it's going to be a pretty ugly scene consumers just have way too much debt relative to their earnings right now and it's pretty nasty And they have some confidence that they'll always have a job or some way to pay there for easy payment for their credit Just trust it's it's hard. It's Muscle memory is serious. You know you come out of 2021 when you had it's not just stimulus checks It was the low interest rate and easy credit availability everywhere And it's just easy to jump into getting new stuff and cool stuff And then when you get used to getting new stuff every week or every month You kind of stick with it and you're like I don't want to give it up just yet I just not just yet not just yet You know, and so it's hard to kind of step back from spending when you have a new type of lifestyle And I think that's what's going on. I think this is an incredible observation Yeah, there's a great tick-tock of this guy that runs car dealerships and he sent them out Unlike how much incredible money like what a significant percentage of people's income They are spending on their monthly car payments and people buy these cars That are well beyond what should be kind of a reasonable budget if you were to go to Susie Orman for advice So you're not buy that freaking car Thanks to Rich and this the stretching is gonna is gonna snap this year. Yeah, absolutely Which brings us to the most anticipated try I love it great one most anticipated trend of 2023 Related to yours. I went with austerity. I have a friend Who sometimes flies private often and I was talking to him about his Christmas vacation this friend of mine, Shama Instead of flying private to his vacation He had to pick up his kids he had to go back and forth. He was driving his car That was three hour that was you. Oh, okay. I didn't want to do a declug you But he was so great Who would normally fly private to Lake Tahoe and he's like no, I can't go out with your skiing on Friday I got to pick up my kids and then I'm driving I said wait a second. How are you doing that? He's like I'm driving a car. I said what who's driving the car? He said I'm driving the car and that's why I say austerity is my anticipated trend of 233 I agree with you. I actually think this is a really good opportunity to pull back on So much waste I haven't really looked at my household budget in probably two or three years didn't even bother Why and then and then when I looked at it, I was like wow this is really inflated to a level that I didn't expect Yes, but it makes a lot of sense to live in a more head's down austere way I don't know. Yeah, I well, I mean look at tonight's menu you went with duck I guess the olive fed wagyu everything's off the menu now no black truffles. We're having duck with we're down to poultry That's just next week. We're gonna have pasta. It's okay. Chama I'll start a measure for everybody. They call it they call it foul for a reason right? Oh god Sacs Do you buy into austerity where Shamahthanai or austerity belt tightening as our trends? Where are you? What's your trend for I think it's a pretty good trend The trend that I am gonna suggest yeah, it will be to your great disappointment jcow which is Trump's influence in the GOP continues to wane you're seeing it in real time right now The headline is Trump's endorsement proves worthless to Kevin McCarthy in the speaker bid Even the maga faithful like Matt gates like Lauren Bobert. They are ignoring Trump's pleas to get behind my Kevin and in fact, they're kind of Not just a fine, but making fun of him Matt gates had a repost Trump saying sad exclamation point and Bobert was saying that Trump needed to get behind her movement So we have now a level of open defiance to Trump in the GOP his endorsements just not are not what they once were and even if somehow Kevin McCarthy pulls us off I think all that means is that Trump gets blamed for every swampy Rhino compromise that McCarthy has to make to keep the government running over the next two years So it's a loose loose does that mean that populism is on the way? Do you think like because the it's the electorate that got him elected in the first place He was not very popular with politicians. He was kind of an outcast when he got elected the first time And that may be the case now, but he still got elected because the population loved him people loved him Is that gonna happen? Do you think that means that the populism is kind of waning or the interest of the voters is waning on him or is it just the political parties alignment? Bobert only bobert only won by a few thousand votes. He didn't exactly crush it in Colorado I think a lot of this has to do with Trump's personal standing after the midterms The candidates that he personally picked that were all in tough races. They all basically lost It was about the distraction he caused by making the 2020 election such a big deal constantly looking backwards So I think that Republican Party doesn't like the antics. It's not about the policies. I don't think I think it's a hundred percent about The about Trump selectability and about his ability to get things done And it's not really about the positions per se So I think freeberg to answer your question. I think that the future that GOP will incorporate this populism But it's gonna find a better integration with the established or waning of the Republican party and Future candidates will have to basically satisfy both of those wings of the party Sax was it was a straw that were maybe the two straws that broke the camel's back for Republicans and Trump in that relationship was it January 6 and the election Denial like for Republicans as it's just like come on Those are the two things this constant focusing on the 2020 election first it cost them the cost Republicans that George Oranovs seat with Purdue against war knock Purdue won on election night didn't clear 50 percent had to go to the runoff This was happened the day before January 6th. It's happened on January 5th of 2021 That was the first race where Trump's antics costume then you had this midterm election Where you know all the candidates who had to appease Trump by talking about again the last election instead of looking to the future They got punished by the the voters. I think Republicans want to win. I mean they're tired of losing. It's that simple. It's that simple Yeah, the job of a politician is to win freeberg you got an anticipated trend of 2023 I am excited about and want to share the point of view that I think I'm selling gene therapies are becoming more mainstream So these are pharmaceutical modalities where we use a gene editing systems where you can actually go in and change Or add a genetic material to cells in your body To resolve things like genetic diseases or change protein deficiencies or introduce new proteins And then cell therapies where we engine your cells put them in the body and those cells go and do things like Attack and destroy cancer cells for example There are currently 27 FDA approved cell and gene therapies on the market There are over a thousand in clinical trials many of which are already showing extraordinary efficacy and benefit today These therapies cost upwards of a million dollars So I think there's a massive and talking about the infrastructure investment conversation earlier Because of the number of diseases and the number of conditions and a number of people that these therapies can treat I think there's massive infrastructure investment opportunity coming forward this year But also seeing these come to market come out of the clinical trials get FDA approved We have to ramp up and build up the infrastructure needed because It's not traditional. We make a drug and a factory and send it to people and they get it injected these are Much more complex they require much more complicated delivery mechanism You have to have systems to engine yourselves and edit them and put them back in your body Those systems today take days or weeks and cost you know as a result a million dollar plus per treatment So I think that um the cell and gene therapy opportunity, you know the JP Morgan health care conference starts this week It's the biggest biotech and health care conference in the world starts in San Francisco on Monday This is one of the biggest areas of interest and one that everyone's investing against Um, but as these come to market there's you know, we talked about this last week genetic diseases types of cancer that are gonna be addressed and I'm really excited about seeing more of these products come to market All right seeing the whole kind of infrastructure and delivery system change all right Sorry to interrupt trying to keep the trains moving gene editing very good choice All right, we're gonna end with this is a little bit fun Most anticipated media for 2020 three of these are things we like to talk about the media here sometimes We talked about white lotus season two amazing season And maybe what you're looking forward to next year I am really looking forward to in film up in Heimer Christopher Nolan's movie about the Manhattan project That should be extraordinary. I loved uh was Dunkirk his as well. I love Dunkirk Not like everything he does and when he if this is him becoming like a history uncle I'm here for it. I'm here for Nolan becoming our history uncle instead of Batman What was the one after inception though that was really confusing the one with Denzel Washington son with John Washington Yes, I mean it was um, I couldn't finish it. I tried twice. I I gotta go a third shot on that one. It was oh yeah, it was it was his worst film Uh, it was really difficult. It was called uh, tenant tenant tenant. Yes about like time and reverse and this it was a possible to follow did you guys see here the original film which was incredible in the Mento of course Mento was fantastic. Yeah, Mento was great. And such it was enough. It was enough mine mine Yeah, it was mind bending enough that you're like oh my god incredible And then I think they took a two far tenant. I tried to watch it three times I'm generally pretty good with these sorts of films and love them But oh my god, it was impossible to follow he took it too far Okay, so hopefully he goes back to his roots In terms of TV series I'm looking forward to secession coming back Ashoka who was uh Anakin Skywalker aka Darth Raiders uh, Patawan Ted Lasso season three coming up Those are for me incredible and then on the book front Man the Michael Lewis book about sbf is gonna be next level. I cannot wait for that sacks You're a media junkie what he got on your list of things you're looking forward to or should say what is Tucker's writers What did they put down for? Well, Jake, I thought you're gonna pick it. I thought the for movie you're gonna pick cocaine bear I can't wait for cocaine. Okay, it does look really amazing It's extraordinary a bear is in the woods And a I guess people who are trafficking and cocaine drop their or crashes and the bear eats the cocaine and then goes on a rampage It's kind of like a a genre film like in the crocodile way by the way I'm listening to quit in Tarantino's book by the way of criticism Get the audiobook you'll like it sacks. He talks about all the films in the 70s very good shout out to Quentin What do you got what do you got on your short list Uh, history uncle Me yeah, what do you got? I just gave you one But cocaine bear top of your list We'll watch it together. I was on my list and I think uh Marvel is doing a good job developing a new villain To rival Thanos with this with Kang. I don't know what phase they're on now, but low season two and then the new Antman movie and You know, I thought after Thanos you wouldn't really be able to top that but yeah, they've come up with a really good concept I think for the next you know 20 Marvel movies Well, and then it will eventually become Galactus. Yeah, you guys have completely fucked up You have missed the most obvious slam down shot days new album go Doon part two. Oh, I have a watch number one yet. I gotta wait what You know, I was happy boring wasn't My wife wants to watch it. It is so stylistically beautiful. It is a little boring. There's not a lot going on slow but it's so well shot It's a fun it's visually just stunning. I mean if you need to watch it on a big screen with big speakers and But part two comes at November this year absolutely. That's okay freeberg tell us what documentary on veganism You recommend and you're anticipating for 2023 what vegan documentary or Animal abuse documentary. I am excited about the generative AI based media that I think is gonna start to kind of rocket this year We could see for example the first you know, AI written symphony The first kind of AI written published novel. I'm interested with that be like a full novel published by AI And more maybe short films based on AI driven script And maybe even what what I'm really excited about is these AI based interactive video games or Kind of experiences where you the user kind of get to create and live your own world Through some sort of video game type modality. So I think AI driven media. All right There you have it folks. There are speaking of pop culture chaos. I guess Prince Harry has a book coming out That's called spare That spare spare like like you know like they're playing Bullink, you know like in in the English monarchy. They there's the air in the spare Oh, he's calling himself but to me that's like a weird self-description. Yeah, like that's that's how you see yourself is just being self-deprecating He didn't pick that they paid him so much money. I heard they have to sell 1.7 million books to break even But you know what it reminds me of is when Leonard Nimoy wrote a book I think he wrote a book called I am Spock and then he wrote a book called I am not Spock Nice, he could never get comfortable with the fact that he was a Spock. Yeah And there's something weird about calling yourself spare like you know, you're not clearly not comfortable with It's like the world. Yeah, everything. Yeah, everything they taught you everything I learned at Harvard business school And everything they don't teach at Harvard business school. You can you can do both books. All right, listen This has been great breaking news as we're talking here chant GPT open AI doing a tender offer billion Obviously losing three billion a day. Oh my god 20.9 billion It's Founders fund more reportedly according to the journal it's Founders fund thrive capital So Founders fund does not generally do super overpriced deals. Yeah Yeah, I would buy that's a silly picture. I mean come on that I'm dude. Are you kidding me? That's that could be a 300 billion dollar company. That's a 10. Right, but that yeah, it's a 10x from here I wouldn't I would not totally could be by the way you guys remember that the Long way to go. I don't know what the current situation is but it was a non-profit Yep where they said investors put money in but the investors maximum return was a hundred X on the dollar invested So it's a non-profit, but it's a half it up to a hundred X. No, no that happened afterwards. It's when they converted to a original model Yeah, no the original model was a pure No original model was a pure nonprofit where there was no cap because there was no concept of equity Yeah, when they flipped they kept everybody to a hundred X on the return So the original money that's but not more or still but no the original money which was like Elon's money We Who else put in money read yeah all that money came in as it has pure non-profit So I don't know how it converted but that's when they or did it convert did those people who find it originally get any shares We for profit we could we could find out probably they did I mean it would make sense that they will find it I mean wait if this is a tender off 27 billion you wouldn't buy shares the Again like the thing that I want to impress upon you is like There is an enormous amount of work that they do that what their biggest gap to monetizing this Will be finding unique Content that they learn on that nobody how sass access to and this is why I really think it's important understand If you have enough compute These all of these unsupervised learning models if you run them on the same training set Will converge to the same answer So you're just getting there first so in order to be really defensible you have to get there in a unique way And so either you're going to hand tune Or you're going to have inputs that are different So I don't know I don't know the answer that's why like they have to answer that question in their fundraising And I'm sure that they did because these are smart investors But that's the big idea that you have to overcome and again you have to think like you think Google is sitting on their hands No I have 29 billion like what fundamentals is that based on like why not five billion why not three billion I mean like why not ten billion like what makes it double valuation that's what it is it's all this is all momentum Said nothing to do with reality right I mean It this would imply at a 30 the public comps of like Google trades at what 25 or 30 ebit times ebita So this would imply a billion dollars in ebita A billion dollars in ebita three million dollars a day they're losing three million dollars a day on computer Report at least three million dollars a day in profit on what product I don't know to have a test I think look I mean my point was if these guys open up a set of tools That support all these applications and services to emerge on top of what they've built And they're getting red share or getting payments out of that it's gonna very quickly turn into a real Here's the problem for you but this is why that can happen They don't have the rights to the data they built the training set on and the second they commercialize it the second anybody pays them Whoever they based this on to go they're gonna get sued into a Bolivian. I predict sued into oblivion Let's talk it. Let's actually let's talk about that in the next show because I think that's a like the the way that AI works And we should probably bring someone like Sam on to talk about it But the way that AI works on training data And now people are making claims that the training data is copyright therefore of course model output is Protect protects that copyright is I think worthy of a good conversation Well, it's interesting is you know the early table type the early version of the of the internet was very simple It's like you had a this file called robux.txt And you would basically be open to a crawl or not and that's what would allow Google to basically go and spider your pages Right, and so we have to replace this concept of that with this AI dot txt Well, you could make a claim that this is no different than You know a spider crawling a web page except that in the in the search case it was much cleaner Which is we're just gonna index your page and redirect people to you Here it's we're actually gonna create a derivative work because of you in court And I do think that that's gonna be a very interesting legal threshold that has to get figured out Well, here it is, Chimoff you're nailing it exactly. It's a derivative work And they did not have permission to use it and it impedes upon the original authors whether it's a photo It's a song. It's a piece of code It impedes upon their ability to do commerce in the world You are interfering with their ability to monetize their content and the percentage you're using is a hundred percent So when you get to fair use Non-commercial use is very protected parodies protected education is protected but when you dip into using the entirety of the work which they're doing And You impede upon the person's ability to commerce and you confuse the public Well, this is what I test that they will fail fail fail This is why I think that most people don't understand what AI is they don't even understand the difference between training and inference so hopefully There is some more understanding of this But if you use the same data set You will eventually converge to the same outputs absent of hand-tuning weights Which has its own issues and absent any Asymmetrically different Data that you have that nobody else has absolutely yes, so if you are apple and you have the watch data or your Google and you have the search data or your A weather company you have the weather data and your proprietary of course There's a very easy solution to this to mouth Number one citations when the algorithm gives you an answer It should say what were the top percentage sources of this information how did the AI But you just look at people look if you look inside of a transformer the problem is okay that you're gonna have trillions of ranks trillions of weights trillions Yes, so how are you gonna decide how to basically draw a line under a threshold this was actually a useful input and this was not So again, I just think that it's hard a very few small class of people actually understand this like the great person to actually bring in to talk about this Would be Andre Carpefie not and I think his Andre was there sure and a Tesla and he but he can say it in a very dispassion away to explain this to people I think we should we should ask him to come on. Yeah, for sure. I mean I can ask him I can I mean this is brand is this the law Satchel in attorney you understand fair use copyright all the stuff The law correct me if I'm wrong here sacks does not anticipate this Look this I highly specialize area. I don't want to pretend like I understand the law in this area You know, I'd want to talk to a specialist. Yeah, okay Yeah, so anybody let's have this conversation because I think yeah, this is a great Discussion work for us to talk about because all right This is probably why by the way they started his open source because it was like a slam dunk thing To make this a nonprofit and open source everything be maybe in part because of these issues, but if you just let the code run free You probably don't have to even deal with these issues, right? Well, they they closed it remember there are claim the claim was this is too dangerous Their original claim was it's too dangerous for people to not see the code Then Sam flipped on that and he said it's too dangerous for people to see the code And it started out as a nonprofit where the idea was the way to keep this Safe is for everybody to see the code, but they didn't make any money Whatever it is and they flip the decision so keep that in mind as well. He's a he's a very very very clever business person he's savvy and You know call Graham when Paul Graham picked Sam to run YC Paul Graham said That this is the most impressive person I've met since Steve jobs. Yeah, remember that I do remember that I said something similar about Gary Tan is now running YC starting this week Sam Altman friend of the pot come on all in anytime and has played in our poker games several times Yes, we we We had a tough situation there were you interfered in a hand if you remember all right listen this is what I'm there was a Sam and I were in a hand of poker He raised I had two pair and I'm trying to figure out does he have a sat or is he bluffing me? I think he's got top pair and you were like oh look at this and you started commenting on the hand Oh my god, I remember this or not yet and I'm like and I'm like For me LaBouche let's let's stop talking here because I'm trying to I'm playing and I'm like okay Sam would get and I basically came to the conclusion Sam would get to like great to like bluffing. Go for hand is a risk taker. He knows I'm conservative He knows he's a risk taker. I'm gonna call here with my I had bottom two I'm like does he have a set and there was also a straight on the board. I'm like fuck it I at best I'm You know even money here, and there was a lot in the pots. I was just doing the pot odds. Well. I'm doing the pot odds You were like Which is usually me. I'm usually the one being reprimand different top I listen love you besties. Why don't you tell people that there's no comments and just as a program I mean note we turned off comments for a couple of weeks on the YouTube just to see how it's like a lot of I fixed me and it's for Chimoff to just f with all you Brigha doonish. We love you Besties this has been in a great episode Commenters to great and his Twitter is at Chimoff and he doesn't read it so everyone knows he knows Sax and I voted against turning off comments Just just as I voted in favor or whatever got Chimoff's vote for the only summit 23 So that's how I vote. This is more trading now, but the podcast has never been better Bestie spending time together on the slopes is the cure to all evils. We'll see you next time. Love you besties. Bye-bye Love you guys. Bye-bye Well let your winners ride. Rainman David's side. We open source it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Besties are gone. That's my dog. Take it away. We should all just get a room and just have one big hug or two because They're all just like this like sexual tension, but we just need to release them out What your back beat? What your beer feet? I'm doing all it You
